Does God Hate Me?


TEXT: Romans 9:13 As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.


The hatred of God is no secret and certainly not made a mystery in the Bible.. We desire His love, but can often place ourselves under the spout of his anger (Psalm 7:11 God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day. )
“Esau have I hated.” (Consider the context: Who is Esau? The rebel, always carnal and self-absorbed, unforgiving, and UNREPENTANT.) There is nothing especially unique about Esau’s position with God than any other sinner in Scripture. It is only because of the strong language in the text, that someone might read into it that God ESPECIALLY hated Esau. But the testimony of Scripture as a whole manifests God as an impartial and unchanging God. (Always love and yet always wrath: two sides of the one coin.) Remember Cain? Genesis 4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.
God’s opinion of us is relative to our response to His dealing. He hates sin and if we cleave to our sin we are judged with it. If we repent of our sin, then God separates our sin from us. 


 Ecclesiastes 5:6 Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was an error: wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?


The devil tries to twist the truth to put us and keep us in bondage. For clarification place the anger or hatred of God in this perspective:
 Proverbs 8:13 The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.


God’s hatred is truly directed toward the abomination of sin and by association all that commit such are condemned and bear the anger and hatred of God. This is the paradox which is our awesome God. He is holy and must judge sin and he is love and forgives all that repent! He satisfies His holiness by Christ paying the price on the cross for us when we repent and believe!


 Jeremiah 31:3 The LORD hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love: therefore with lovingkindness have I drawn thee.


The children of God loving you is also evidence God loves you...
Romans 5:1-2 By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us.
Ephesians 2:4 But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us,