Typology I-A 
Final Exam Prep

1. Why should we study Typology? (2 part answer)

2. What is the study of “Typology”?

3. Define briefly the following five N.T. terms:
a. tupos
b. skia,
c. hupodeigma,
d. parabole
e. antitupos,

4. What are the Nine Categories of biblical types?

5. How should types be used concerning doctrine?

6. Explain the three different kinds of extremism concerning types.

7. Explain briefly the truth that each of the following three types teach us:
1. Jacob’s ladder,
2. The brazen serpent
3. Jacob’s well

8. Certain characters function both as numerals and symbols. Explain the first four examples giving the Hebrew alphabet letters:
-number (1,2,3,4,5)
-letter
-word picture 
-& meaning of the word picture

9-23. What does the number___signify?
“one” "nine"
“two” "ten"
“three” "eleven"
"four" "twelve"
"five" "thirty-nine"
"six" "forty"
"seven" "fifty"
"eight"

24. Give three different example of sets of “seven” used in Scripture.

25. Give spiritual application for the following descriptions of Rebekah:
a. Rebekah’s willingness to water the camels and obey the servant.
b. Rebekah was given gifts of gold and silver.
c. Rebekah was given Raiment.

26. Explain the spiritual significance of the Servant in the story of Rebekah in Genesis 24 and especially bring attention to the fact that he was sent to get Rebekah to bring her to Isaac.

27. What is meant when the Biblical writers use the word “temple”?

28. Where do we find the account of the “silver cup” in Scripture? Give reference and a brief summary of the story.

29. The silver cup was a gift. Draw a spiritual parallel to this.

30. What does Benjamin’s name mean and what is he a type of?

31. The steward searched their sacks. Give spiritual application.

32. Joseph’s coat was of many colors. It was a coat of salvation, character and honor. Explain the typology of the following colors: White, Red, Blue, Purple, Gold, Silver, Brass, Green, Black

33. Explain the spiritual significance of the Servant in the story of Rebekah in Genesis 24 and especially bring attention to the fact that he was sent to get Rebekah to bring her to Isaac.

34. What is meant when the Biblical writers use the word “temple”?

35. Where do we find the account of the “silver cup” in Scripture? Give reference and a brief summary of the story.

36. The silver cup was a gift. Draw a spiritual parallel to this.

37. What does Benjamin’s name mean and what is he a type of?

38. The steward searched their sacks. Give spiritual application.

39. Joseph’s coat was of many colors. It was a coat of salvation, character and honor. Explain the typology of the following colors: White, Red, Blue, Purple, Gold, Silver, Brass, Green, Black

40. Give the definition of “type”. Verbatim

41. Give a definition of an antitype. Verbatim

42. There are four schools of thought on the History of Typology. Give short summary.
1) Hyper-Typical
2) Rational Critical
3) Marshian Principle
4) Moderate

43. How do we know that types are established in the Word by the Holy Spirit?

44. Contrast Light and Darkness. (Give literal descriptions and complete with spiritual significance.)

45-47. There are subsonic and ultra sonic sound waves which are beyond the spectrum of hearing for humans. And there are also frequencies of sound that some humans can hear and other humans cannot. List and describe three different instances in Scripture where sound is prominent or important.

Typology I-A Final Exam Prep
The End
