Tax Topics - Topic 417 Earnings for Clergy<!--[if gte IE]> <![endif]--> Home  |  
Contact IRS  |  About IRS  |  Site Map  |  Español  |  Help    
Advanced Search   Search Tips       

IRS Resources
  Compliance & Enforcement 
  Contact My Local Office 
  e-file 
  Forms and Publications 
  Frequently Asked Questions 
  News 
  Taxpayer Advocacy 
  Where To File 
Topic 417 - Earnings for Clergy

For income tax purposes, a licensed, commissioned, or ordained minister is 
generally treated as a common law employee of his or her church, denomination, 
or sect. There are, however, some exceptions such as traveling evangelists who 
may be treated as independent contractors. If you are an employee performing 
ministerial services, you are taxed on wages, offerings, and fees you receive 
for performing marriages, baptismals, and/or funerals. 
The employer will report the wages to you on Form W-2 (PDF). If you itemize your 
deductions, you may be able to deduct certain unreimbursed business expenses 
related to your services. You may need to fill out Form 2106 (PDF), Employee 
Business Expenses, and attach it to your Form 1040 (PDF). Refer to Topic 514 for 
information on Employee Business Expenses, and Topic 508 for information on the 
2% of adjusted gross income limitation. If you are an independent contractor, 
use Form 1040, Schedule C (PDF), Net Profit from Business, or Form 1040, 
Schedule C-EZ (PDF), Profit or Loss from Business, to report these earnings and 
expenses, and refer to Topic 408 for income and business deductions for a 
self–employed person. 
The gross income of a licensed, commissioned or ordained minister does not 
include the fair rental value of a home (a parsonage provided), or a housing 
allowance paid, as part of the minister's compensation for services performed 
that are ordinarily the duties of the minister. If you own your home, you may 
still claim deductions for mortgage interest and property taxes. If your housing 
allowance exceeds your actual expenses, you must include this amount as other 
income. 
A minister who is furnished a parsonage may exclude from income the fair rental 
value of the parsonage, including utilities. However, the amount excluded cannot 
be more than the reasonable pay for the minister's services. 
A minister who receives a housing allowance may exclude the allowance from gross 
income to the extent it is used to pay expenses in providing a home. Generally, 
those expenses include rent, mortgage interest, utilities, repairs, and other 
expenses directly relating to providing a home. 
The minister's employing organization must officially designate the allowance as 
a housing allowance before paying it to the minister. 
The fair rental value of a parsonage or the housing allowance is excludable from 
income only for income tax purposes. No exclusion applies for self–employment 
tax purposes. For Social Security purposes, a duly ordained, licensed or 
commissioned minister is self–employed. This means that your salary on Form W–2, 
the net profit on Schedule C or C–EZ, and your housing allowance, less your 
employee business expenses are subject to self–employment tax on Form 1040, 
Schedule SE (PDF). However, you can request an exemption from self–employment 
tax, if you are conscientiously opposed to public insurance for religious 
reasons. You cannot request exemption solely for economic reasons. To request 
the exemption, file Form 4361 (PDF), Application for Exemption From 
Self-Employment Tax for Use by Ministers, Members of Religious Orders and 
Christian Science Practitioners, with the IRS. You must file it by the due date 
of your income tax return (including extensions) for the second tax year in 
which you have net earnings from self–employment of at least $400.00. This rule 
applies if any part of your net earnings came from the performance of 
ministerial services. 
For more information, refer to Publication 517, Social Security and Other 
Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers. 
More Tax Topic CategoriesAccessibility |  FirstGov.gov |  Freedom of Information 
Act |  Important Links |  IRS Privacy Policy |  U.S. Treasury


