Title: Praise the Lord in the Coming Storm
Text: Psalm 148
Preacher: Rev. Stephen G. Reynolds, Sr.


Christ is to be praised!
There is a unity in PRAYER and PRAISE to God.


Psalm 19:1 The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork.
Psalm 148:1


United in Praise
 
All creation is called upon to praise the Lord
 
Ps 19:1 The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork.
 
The heavens declare the glory of God and proclaim his wisdom, power, and goodness
The glory of God's works
Let us give God the glory for all the many wonderful works of God.
 
Every part of His creation is full of His glory
 
Isa 6:3 And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the LORD of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.
 
I.               There is an earnest call to all the creatures, according to their capacity, to praise their Creator
Ps 148:1 ¶ Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights.
Ps 148:14 He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD.
 
The people that are nearest to Him have the greatest and highest reasons to praise Him.
All those that have been taken into a peculiar relationship with Him have highest reasons to praise Him as Lord.
To exalt the horn (strength, victory, glory, honor and power) the praise of his saints, is to give them still higher reasons for praising him.
Ps 148:14 He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD.
We as saints have the greatest cause to praise Him
We as saints have the greatest capacity to praise Him
We as saints have the greatest concerns to praise Him
 
Be sure to lead the song, lead in praise, lead in worship.
Keep not your worship to yourselves, get it out, let it out strong.
Praise is mentioned 13 x’s
A.  He calls upon the higher heights, the creatures that are placed in the upper world, to praise the Lord, both those that are intellectual beings, and are capable of actively praising God.
 
Ps 148:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights.
2 Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts.
 
B.  and those capable of praising Him only objectively,
Ps 148:3 Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light.
 4 Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens.
 5 Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they were created.
 6 He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass.
 
C. He calls upon the lower house, the creatures of this lower world, both those that can only minister matter of praise
 
Ps 148:7 Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps:
 8 Fire, and hail; snow, and vapour; stormy wind fulfilling his word:
 9 Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:
 10 Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl:
 
D. Those endued with reason, are capable of offering up this praise
Ps 148:11 Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth:
 12 Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children:
 13 Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.
 
E.  especially his own people that are nearest to Him,
a.   who have more cause to praise Him
b.   and are more concerned to do it, than any other.
c.   far move in close; Close move in closer
 
Ps 148:14 He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD.
 
Isa 38:18 For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate thee: they that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth.
 19 The living, the living, he shall praise thee, as I do this day: the father to the children shall make known thy truth.
 
1Pe 1:8 Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory:
 
Let the joy of the Lord overflow your soul
Let your heart full with the thought of His infinite majesty worship the Lord.
He is worthy of all possible praise.  Pour it forth before HIM in full volume; pour it here and everywhere.
Now and continually, let the whole world around you know it.
 
Let these words break forth out of your mouth. Ps 148:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights.
 
Ps 148:13 Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven. {excellent: Heb. exalted}
 
 
Lu 19:37 And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen;
 38 Saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
 39 And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.
 40 And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.
 
Job 38:22 Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail,
 23 Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war?
 
 
The winds of fresh growth or the winds of persecution
 
Praise the Lord: The only hope in the coming storm
1John 4:17 ¶ Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.
The Word shows the Lord warned of the coming storm. The apostle John writes, “As he is, so are we in this world” (1 John 4:17). We simply have to have Jesus’ mindset in all things. If we don’t our hearts will fail us.
The Bible gives no evidence of Christ being downcast, fearful or hopeless. He didn’t panic or despair. In spite of all he saw coming Jesus knew the final outcome. He knew the gates of hell would not prevail against God’s people.
David gives us a clear picture of Jesus’ attitude in the face of the coming storm. He speaks prophetically of Christ,
Ac 2:25 For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved:
 26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope:
Jesus kept the Father always before his face. The literal meaning here is, “I was always in his presence, beholding his face.” Jesus continually sought out secret places to be shut in with his Father. And it was only after being in God’s presence that Christ came forth to minister, fully persuaded his Father was always with him: “He is at my right hand, and nothing on this earth can move me!” The Greek word for “moved” here means “agitated or shaken, disturbed.” Jesus was saying, “None of these problems, evils or coming events can cast me down or shake my confidence. My Father is in complete control.”
Beloved, if we’re going to face the coming storm, then we need to be prepared so nothing disturbs our spirit. The only way to do that is to spend time in the Father’s presence, beholding his face. We have to be shut in with him— on our knees, praising Him in His presence, seeking him—until we are thoroughly persuaded he’s at our right hand.
God is clearly telling us, “Don’t be moved or agitated by anything you see. Keep your eyes focused on me and you will retain your joy
Ac 2:27 Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.
 28 Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance.
2Co 5:7 (For we walk by faith, not by sight:)
 
Heb 12:2 Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
Heb 4:14 Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
 15 For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.
 16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.
“I faced everything you’re going to face in the closing days of time. I had the same  feelings (touched with the feelings our infirmities) because I saw the coming storm. But I ran into the presence of my Father and he lifted all my concerns. He showed me the outcome of it all. And in his presence I found all the joy, hope and rest I would ever need, to the very end. I have peace and joy because I’ve been with him.”
Ac 2:25 For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved:                                                  26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope:
Ps 16:11 Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.
 
A Beautiful Man of God will always bring hope to the people.
Son 7:1 How beautiful are thy feet with shoes, O prince's daughter! the joints of thy thighs are like jewels, the work of the hands of a cunning workman.                                                                                                                             Isa 52:7 How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth!
Rom 10:15 And how shall they preach, except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!
Eph 6:15 And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
Isa 32:1 Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in judgment.                                                                                                                                 2 And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and a covert from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.
These promises are meant to comfort us as “prior warnings.” You see, all the prophets warn of a great storm coming in the final days. And this storm will beat against God’s wall of protection with ferocity. Jesus says the coming storm will be so frightful and overwhelming that people’s hearts will fail them as they see it forming.
Lu 21:26 Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.
Heb 12:27 And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.                                                                                                                              Mt 7:27 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.                                                             Lu 6:49 But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great.
If Jesus says this storm is going to be ferocious (tempestuous winds) we can know it will be an awesome moment in history.
Am 3:7 Surely the Lord GOD will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.
 What a marvelous expression of our Lord’s great love for his people. Just prior to any impending storm of judgment, the Lord always commands his prophets to warn the people to return to him:
Ho 12:6 Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment, and wait on thy God continually.                                                                                                                             10 I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets.
God is faithful to speak in times of prosperity, just before the fury of his judgment strikes. While the storm clouds are still gathering he raises up prophetic voices all over the land. And, according to Scripture, whenever a sinful nation was prosperous and at peace, God told his prophets to warn that the good times soon would end:
Zec 1:4 Be ye not as your fathers, unto whom the former prophets have cried, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Turn ye now from your evil ways, and from your evil doings: but they did not hear, nor hearken unto me, saith the LORD.                         7 Should ye not hear the words which the LORD hath cried by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and the cities thereof round about her, when men inhabited the south and the plain?
Zec 7:9 Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, Execute true judgment, and shew mercy and compassions every man to his brother:
At times God made his message strong, instructing his spokesmen to make their warnings searing.         He said through Hosea,
Ho 6:5 Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are as the light that goeth forth.                                                       6 For I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings.
God says, The word I send you will be so clear it will smite you if your heart is open at all, It will cause you to fall on your face and repent.”
God’s purpose in calling us back to himself is to protect us in the time of storm. Yet often in history when he gave these warnings the people refused to listen:                                                                                          2Ch 24:19 Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again unto the LORD; and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.
God’s people grow weary of these warnings. This was especially true if a prophet cried out about a coming storm over a period of years and that society continued to be prosperous and at peace. Over time the people began to turn off the prophet’s voice. They simply didn’t want to hear it anymore.
Isa 30:10 Which say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth things, prophesy deceits:
Can you imagine ever falling to such a condition? These people knew Isaiah was telling the truth—that a great storm was coming—but they got tired of hearing about it. They preferred to hear “smooth things.” The Hebrew word for “smooth” here means “pleasant, unperturbed.” They were telling Isaiah, in other words, Don’t preach anything to us that will upset the status quo or make us nervous.
This condition has crept into the church today. Believers who have been devoted to Jesus for years now hear more horrible reports of violence, disasters, hunger, crime, immorality. After a while, their minds become satiated with all the bad news and their hearts become hardened to it. even the worst report is just another story.”
Can anything move us anymore? We’ve heard every type of bad news we could possibly hear. What disaster or calamity is left to shock us?
God sees the response among his people! We see this in the warnings of the prophet Ezekiel. At the time Ezekiel prophesied, Israel was prosperous and at peace with the surrounding nations. Yet the Lord told Ezekiel to give the people this message:
Eze 33:28 For I will lay the land most desolate, and the pomp of her strength shall cease; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate, that none shall pass through.  29 Then shall they know that I am the LORD, when I have laid the land most desolate because of all their abominations which they have committed.
The prophet went up and down the land preaching God’s warnings over several years. But the people grew weary of listening to him. Over all that time not one of Ezekiel’s words had come to pass. On the contrary, the nation only grew more prosperous.
At some point Ezekiel’s prophecies became a source of entertainment for the people. They began calling him names behind his back: “doomsday preacher,” “the man who never smiles,” “Mr. bad news.” Ezekiel finally got fed up and said, “Lord, you’ve deceived me. Nothing you told me has come to pass. Now everyone is mocking me!”
Eze 33:30 Also, thou son of man, the children of thy people still are talking against thee by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and speak one to another, every one to his brother, saying, Come, I pray you, and hear what is the word that cometh forth from the LORD.                                                                                                             31 And they come unto thee as the people cometh, and they sit before thee as my people, and they hear thy words, but they will not do them: for with their mouth they shew much love, but their heart goeth after their covetousness.                                                    32 And, lo, thou art unto them as a very lovely song of one that hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument: for they hear thy words, but they do them not.                                                                                                                                                                33 And when this cometh to pass, (lo, it will come,) then shall they know that a prophet hath been among them.
Have you come to the place where you have said in your heart, “I’ve already heard it all. I don’t want to hear any more”? If so, beware.
As it was with past societies the church today is in no mood to receive bad news.
The majority of churchgoers today reject prophetic warnings of a coming storm. Indeed, the American church is the most blatant “feel good” church in all of history. But, like Israel, we are only experiencing the calm before the storm.
While Moses spent forty days on the mountaintop, Israel indulged in a spirit of lawlessness. Likewise today, Christians by the multiple thousands are casting off the yoke of Christ, tossing aside all limits and restrictions. This attitude is prevalent in many Christian books and magazines. It’s almost as if our leaders are saying, “Relax, God isn’t hard. He’s our Daddy, we’re his kids, and we’re all meant to have a good time. Don’t let anyone disturb your fun.”
How could that ever be the work of the Holy Spirit?
The Bible says a time is coming when God’s people will no longer blush. And right now, the church’s blush is gone because we have seen and heard so much already. Yet this is just the beginning.
Jer 6:15 Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they shall fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them they shall be cast down, saith the LORD.                         8:12 Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore shall they fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation they shall be cast down, saith the LORD.
Ezra could blush                                                                                                                                Ezr 9:6 And said, O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God: for our iniquities are increased over our head, and our trespass is grown up unto the heavens.                                                                                                                                 Men of God can blush and get help from the Lord to speak the truth no matter if the people don’t want to hear.
Am 8:11 Behold, the days come, saith the Lord GOD, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the LORD:
Notice this verse doesn’t say there will be a famine of preaching. God would never hold back his warnings from his church, because only his truth can set us free.
Amos’s prophecy is not about all the shallow, light preaching we hear today. Rather, what the church today is experiencing is a famine of hearing. There is an unwillingness to hear the true Word of God. Instead, people are closing their eyes and ears, hardening their hearts and saying, “I don’t want to hear any more.”
I believe right now we are experiencing the calm prior to the greatest storm America has ever suffered.
 
 
 
The blind watchmen become candidates as rulers of darkness and angels of light.
They end up preaching another Jesus, another gospel! Listen to these very clear warnings,
2Co 11:2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy: for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
 3 But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ.
 4 For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or if ye receive another spirit, which ye have not received, or another gospel, which ye have not accepted, ye might well bear with him.
 
2Co 11:13 For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ.
 14 And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.
 15 Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works.
Heb 10:25 Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching.                                                                                                   26 For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
Thank God - The true and faithful watchmen on the wall will never compromise! They will not stop warning the righteous about the seductions and infiltrations of the wicked one among God's people. No sincere Christian need be in doubt about who to listen to in these days of many voices.
There are two very clear and unmistakable tests of all prophetic warnings:
1.     True prophecy seeks to turn Christians away from sin.
Jer 23:22 But if they had stood in my counsel, and had caused my people to hear my words, then they should have turned them from their evil way, and from the evil of their doings.
Heed the voice of those who seek to turn you away from wickedness. Avoid those who speak soothing words with no reference to sin.
2.     Prophetic warnings, from the beginning, spoke of judgments upon the wicked.
Jer 28:7 Nevertheless hear thou now this word that I speak in thine ears, and in the ears of all the people;                                                                               8 The prophets that have been before me and before thee of old prophesied both against many countries, and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence.
Those who warn of coming judgment are in good company. They speak the same word of all the prophets "from the beginning."
The warnings now going forth from God's holy watchmen are the greatest evidences of His love to this generation. He loves His people enough to prepare them; to give them time to repent and prepare the way of the Lord in holiness! Those who love the Lord will be thankful. Those who are at ease in Zion will be repelled and rebell. There is nothing worse than to have the false prophets out doing the true prophets.
 
Ps 86:11 Teach me thy way, O LORD; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name.
 
I.               Teaching is desired
II.             Obedience is determined
III.            Unity is distinguished
He confesses himself ignorant of the way till God has taught him, and his obedience is confirmed.
His heart is variable, scattered and separate from God, till God join it to him.
 
Ps 133:1 Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!
Eph 4:3 Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Eph 4:13 Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ: