The Broken Covenant 

11:1-12:17 

 

Jer 11:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying, 

 2 Hear ye the words of this covenant, and speak unto the men of Judah, and to the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem; 

 3 And say thou unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel; Cursed be the man that 
obeyeth not the words of this covenant, 

 8 Yet they obeyed not, nor inclined their ear, but walked every one in the imagination of 
their evil heart: therefore I will bring upon them all the words of this covenant, which I 
commanded them to do; but they did them not. 

10 They are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, which refused to hear my 
words; and they went after other gods to serve them: the house of Israel and the house 
of Judah have broken my covenant which I made with their fathers. 

 

“broken my covenant” 

 

Jer.12:2 Thou hast planted them, yea, they have taken root: they grow, yea, they bring 
forth fruit: thou art near in their mouth, and far from their reins. 

 

. “Thou hast planted them” 


 

. “They have taken root” 


 

. “They grow” 


 

. “They bring forth fruit” 


 

. “Thou art near in their mouth” 


 

. “Far from their reins” 


 

 

 

Jer 17:10 I the LORD search the heart, I try the reins, even to give every man according 
to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings. 

 

Mat. 15:8 This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with 
their lips; but their heart is far from me. 

 

Isa 29:13 Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their 
mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far from me, and 
their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men: 

 


Mk. 7:6 He answered and said unto them, Well hath Esaias prophesied of you 
hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far 
from me. 

 

 

Ps 17:3 Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night; thou hast tried 
me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. 

 

Jer 11:20 But, O LORD of hosts, that judgest righteously, that triest the reins and the 
heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee have I revealed my cause. 

 

20:12 But, O LORD of hosts, that triest the righteous, and seest the reins and the heart, 
let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee have I opened my cause. 

 

 

When we are tempted to envy the wicked for their prosperity, we should look beyond 
present appearances and consider their latter end. Ps 73:17-20; Lu 16:19-31 

 

. None ever hardened his heart thus against God and prospered? 
. None ever hardened his heart against God and had Joy. 


 

Jer 12:7 I have forsaken mine house, I have left mine heritage; I have given the dearly 
beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies. 

 

Jer 12:1 Righteous art thou, O LORD, when I plead with thee: yet let me talk with thee 
of thy judgments: Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? wherefore are all they 
happy that deal very treacherously? 

 

“I plead with thee” 

 

 Two Questions 

 

I. Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? 
II. Wherefore are all they happy that deal very treacherously? 


 

 

 

 

Ps 51:7 Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than 
snow. 

 8 Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may 
rejoice. 

 

 

 

 


Jer 12:14 Thus saith the LORD against all mine evil neighbours, that touch the 
inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit; Behold, I will pluck them out 
of their land, and pluck out the house of Judah from among them. 

17 But if they will not obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroy that nation, saith the 
LORD. 

 

 

De 30:3 That then the LORD thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon 
thee, and will return and gather thee from all the nations, whither the LORD thy God 
hath scattered thee. 

 

Jer 32:37 Behold, I will gather them out of all countries, whither I have driven them in 
mine anger, and in my fury, and in great wrath; and I will bring them again unto this 
place, and I will cause them to dwell safely: 

 

 

A Message of Hope To The Exiled 

 

Zech. 2:6-13 

Zec 2:6 Ho, ho, come forth, and flee from the land of the north, saith the LORD: for I 
have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heaven, saith the LORD. 

 7 Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon. 

 8 For thus saith the LORD of hosts; After the glory hath he sent me unto the nations 
which spoiled you: for he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye. 

 

 

 

Return “come forth” is the Word. 

“flee” Get out of Babylon. 

 

I. The Divine Appeal - vs. 6 

 This is a Divine call to the Jews in Babylon - to return to their land. 

 

 Also this illustrates the moral exile of humanity. 

 What this reveals - 

 1. The Reluctance of the exiles to Return 

 "Ho, ho, come forth" vs. 7 "Deliver thyself, 

 O Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon." 

 

 Why should sinners be so reluctant to return to the Lord? 

 

 2. The Resolution of the Divine Appeal. 

 "Flee from the north" - "Saith the LORD" 

 (1.) Demands Earnestness - "Flee" 

 (2.) Requires Separation - "From the North" 

 It was the land of corruption and tyranny. 


 Separation is a duty and a privilege 

They could not possess and enjoy the blessings of God living in Babylon. 

 Neither can the believer today. 

 

 3. The Reason for the Divine Appeal. 

 (1.) Justice had been served - vs. 6b 

 (2.) Lesson had been learned. 

 (3.) Judgment on their enemies - vs. 9 

 

III. The Divine Attentiveness - vs. 8 


 

 Indicates three things - 

 1. Intimate Union - 

 "He that toucheth you" Touches Him 

 Isa. 63:9 "In all their afflictions He was afflicted." 

 Eph. 5:30 "For we are members of His body" 

 2. Sensitive Feeling - 

 "Toucheth the apple of His Eye." 

The "Apple of the Eye" is considered the most intricate, delicate, sensitive and 
tender part of the body and most important. 

 Touching God's children is like touching the most tender part of God. "His Eye" 

 Heb. 4:15 

 3. Intense Protectiveness - 

"His Eye" You take more care and concern for the eye than any other part 
of the body. 

 Nothing reveals God's attentiveness to our needs more than this. 

 

IV. The Divine Kingdom - vs. 10 – 13 


 

 1. The Glory of His Kingdom - 

 Filled with the Joy of His Presence – 

 

 "Sing and Rejoice" - "for, lo, I come and dwell in the midst." 

 

 (1.) Joy is a blessing and a privilege. 

 (2.) Joy is also a duty - Phil 4:4 I Thess. 5:16 

Ps 16:11 Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness of joy; at thy right 
hand there are pleasures for evermore. 

 

 2. The Greatness of His Kingdom - 

 vs. 11 "And many nations shall be joined to the LORD in that day." 

 

 3. The Grandeur of His Kingdom - 

 He rules not by force, but by love and righteousness. 

 Psa. 72:2 "He shall judge His people with righteousness." 

 Isa. 9:7 Jer. 23:5 Dan. 7:14 


