Publication 517 (2005), Social Security and Other Information for Members of the Clergy and Religious Workers<!--[if 
gte IE]> <![endif]--> Home  |  Contact IRS  |  About IRS  |  Site Map  |  
Español  |  Help    
Advanced Search   Search Tips       

IRS Resources
  Compliance & Enforcement 
  Contact My Local Office 
  e-file 
  Forms and Publications 
  Frequently Asked Questions 
  News 
  Taxpayer Advocacy 
  Where To File 
Publication 517 - Main Contents 



Table of Contents
  Social Security Coverage
    Ministers 
    Members of Religious Orders 
    Christian Science Practitioners and Readers 
    Religious Workers (Church Employees) 
    U.S. Citizens and Resident and Nonresident Aliens 
  Exemption From Self-Employment (SE) Tax
    Ministers, Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners 
    Members of Recognized Religious Sects 
  Qualified Services
    Ministers 
    Members of Religious Orders 
    Christian Science Practitioners and Readers 
  Figuring Net Earnings From Self-Employment for SE Tax
    Regular Method 
    Nonfarm Optional Method 
  Income Tax: Income and Expenses
    Income Items 
    Expense Items 
    Income Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax 
  Filing Your Return
  Retirement Savings Arrangements
    Deducting contributions to tax-sheltered annuity plans. 
    More information. 
  Earned Income Credit
    Earned income for a minister with an approved Form 4361. 
    Earned income for a minister whose income from qualified services is not 
    exempt from SECA. 
    Earned income for a member of a recognized religious sect with an approved 
    Form 4029. 
  Comprehensive Example
    Form W-2 From Church 
    Form W-2 From College 
    Schedule C-EZ (Form 1040) 
    Form 2106-EZ 
    Schedule A (Form 1040) 
    Schedule SE (Form 1040) 
    Form 1040 
    Attachment 1 
    Attachment 2 
  Worksheets
Social Security Coverage 
The services you perform in the exercise of your ministry are covered by social 
security and Medicare under SECA. Your earnings for these services are subject 
to self-employment tax (SE tax) unless one of the following applies. 
  You are a member of a religious order who has taken a vow of poverty. 
  You ask the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for an exemption from SE tax for 
  your services and the IRS approves your request. See Exemption From 
  Self-Employment (SE) Tax, later. 
  You are subject only to the social security laws of a foreign country under 
  the provisions of a social security agreement between the United States and 
  that country. For more information, see Binational Social Security 
  (Totalization) Agreements in Publication 54. 
Your earnings that are not from the exercise of your ministry may be subject to 
social security tax under FICA or SECA according to the rules that apply to 
taxpayers in general. See Qualified Services, later. 
Ministers
If you are a minister of a church, your earnings for the services you perform in 
your capacity as a minister are subject to SE tax unless you have requested and 
received an exemption. See Exemption From Self-Employment (SE) Tax, later. These 
earnings are subject to SE tax whether you are an employee of your church or a 
self-employed person under the common law rules. For the specific services 
covered, see Qualified Services, later. 
Ministers Defined 
Ministers are individuals who are duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed by a 
religious body constituting a church or church denomination. They are given the 
authority to conduct religious worship, perform sacerdotal functions, and 
administer ordinances or sacraments according to the prescribed tenets and 
practices of that church or denomination. 
If a church or denomination ordains some ministers and licenses or commissions 
others, anyone licensed or commissioned must be able to perform substantially 
all the religious functions of an ordained minister to be treated as a minister 
for social security purposes. 
Employment Status for Other Tax Purposes 
Even though for social security tax purposes, you are considered a self-employed 
individual in performing your ministerial services, you may be considered an 
employee for income tax or retirement plan purposes. For income tax or 
retirement plan purposes, some of your income may be considered self-employment 
income and other income may be considered wages. 
Common-law employee.   Under common law rules, you are considered either an 
employee or a self-employed person depending on all the facts and circumstances. 
Generally, you are an employee if your employer has the legal right to control 
both what you do and how you do it, even if you have considerable discretion and 
freedom of action. For more information about the common-law rules, see 
Publication 15-A, Employer's Supplemental Tax Guide. 
  If you are employed by a congregation for a salary, you are generally a 
common-law employee and income from the exercise of your ministry is considered 
wages for income tax purposes. However, amounts received directly from members 
of the congregation, such as fees for performing marriages, baptisms, or other 
personal services, are considered self-employment income. 
Example.
A church hires and pays you a salary to perform ministerial services subject to 
its control. Under the common-law rules, you are an employee of the church while 
performing those services. 
Form SS-8.   If you are not certain whether you are an employee or a 
self-employed person, you can get a determination from the IRS by filing Form 
SS-8. 
Members of Religious Orders
If you are a member of a religious order who has not taken a vow of poverty, 
your earnings for qualified services you performed as a member of the order are 
subject to SE tax. See Qualified Services, later. This does not apply if you 
have requested and received an exemption as discussed under Exemption From 
Self-Employment (SE) Tax, later. 
Vow of poverty.   If you are a member of a religious order who has taken a vow 
of poverty, you are exempt from paying SE tax on your earnings for qualified 
services (defined later) you perform as an agent of your church or its agencies. 
For income tax purposes, the earnings are tax free to you. Your earnings are 
considered the income of the religious order. 
Services covered under FICA at the election of the order.   Even if you have 
taken a vow of poverty, the services you perform for your church or its agencies 
may be covered under social security. Your services are covered if your order, 
or an autonomous subdivision of the order, elects social security coverage for 
its current and future vow-of-poverty members. 
  The order or subdivision elects coverage by filing Form SS-16. It can elect 
coverage for certain vow-of-poverty members for a retroactive period of up to 20 
calendar quarters before the quarter in which it files the certificate. If the 
election is made, the order or subdivision pays both the employer's and 
employee's share of the tax. You do not pay. 
Services performed outside the order.   Even if you are a member of a religious 
order who has taken a vow of poverty and are required to turn over to the order 
amounts you earn, your earnings are subject to federal income tax withholding 
and employment (FICA) tax if you: 
  Work for an organization outside your religious community, and
  Perform work that is not required by, or done on behalf of, the order.
  In this case, you are considered an employee of that outside organization. You 
may, however, be able to take a charitable deduction for the amount you turn 
over to the order. See Publication 526, Charitable Contributions. 
Lay employees.   Lay employees generally are covered by social security. 
However, see Election To Exclude Church Employees From FICA Coverage, later, 
under Religious Workers (Church Employees). 
Rulings.   Organizations and individuals may request rulings from the IRS on 
whether they are religious orders, or members of a religious order, 
respectively, for FICA tax, SE tax, and federal income tax withholding purposes. 
To request a ruling, follow the procedures in Revenue Procedure 2005-1, which is 
published in Internal Revenue Bulletin 2005-1. 
  You can read this Revenue Procedure at most IRS offices or at 
www.irs.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb05-01.pdf. 
  To subscribe to the Bulletin, you can order it on the Internet at 
http://bookstore.gpo.gov/subscriptions/index.html. You also can write to: 


Superintendent of Documents 
P.O. Box 371954 
Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. 
Christian Science Practitioners and Readers
Your earnings from services you performed in your profession as a Christian 
Science practitioner or reader are generally subject to SE tax. However, you can 
request an exemption as discussed under Exemption From Self-Employment (SE) Tax, 
later. 
Practitioners.   Christian Science practitioners are members in good standing of 
the Mother Church, The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, 
Massachusetts, who practice healing according to the teachings of Christian 
Science. Christian Science practitioners are specifically exempted from 
licensing by state laws. 
  Some Christian Science practitioners also are Christian Science teachers or 
lecturers. Income from teaching or lecturing is considered the same as income 
from their work as practitioners. 
Readers.   Christian Science readers are considered the same as ordained, 
commissioned, or licensed ministers. 
Religious Workers (Church Employees)
If you are a religious worker (a church employee) and are not in one of the 
classes already discussed, your wages are generally subject to social security 
and Medicare tax (FICA) and not to SE tax. Some exceptions are discussed next. 
Election By Church To Exclude Their Employees From FICA Coverage 
Churches and qualified church-controlled organizations (church organizations) 
that are opposed for religious reasons to the payment of social security and 
Medicare taxes can elect to exclude their employees from FICA coverage. If you 
are an employee of a church or church organization that makes this election and 
pays you $108.28 or more in wages, you must pay SE tax on those wages. 
Churches and church organizations make this election by filing two copies of 
Form 8274, Certification by Churches and Qualified Church-Controlled 
Organizations Electing Exemption From Employer Social Security and Medicare 
Taxes. For more information about making this election, see Form 8274. 
Table 2. The Self-Employment Tax Exemption Application and Approval Process 
       Who Can Apply 
       Ministers, Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science 
      Practitioners Member of Recognized 
      Religious Sect 
      How File Form 4361 File Form 4029 
      When File by the due date (including extensions) of your income tax return 
      for the second tax year in which you had at least $400 of net earnings 
      from self-employment (at least part from qualified services) File anytime 
      Approval If approved, you will receive an approved copy of Form 4361 If 
      approved, you will receive an approved copy of Form 4029 
      Effective Date For all tax years after 1967 in which you have at least 
      $400 of net earnings from self-employment First day of first quarter after 
      the quarter in which Form 4029 was filed 

Table 2. The Self-Employment Tax Exemption Application and Approval Process 
       Who Can Apply 
       Ministers, Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science 
      Practitioners Member of Recognized 
      Religious Sect 
      How File Form 4361 File Form 4029 
      When File by the due date (including extensions) of your income tax return 
      for the second tax year in which you had at least $400 of net earnings 
      from self-employment (at least part from qualified services) File anytime 
      Approval If approved, you will receive an approved copy of Form 4361 If 
      approved, you will receive an approved copy of Form 4029 
      Effective Date For all tax years after 1967 in which you have at least 
      $400 of net earnings from self-employment First day of first quarter after 
      the quarter in which Form 4029 was filed 

Election by Church Employees Who Are Opposed to Social Security and Medicare 
You may be able to choose to be exempt from social security and Medicare taxes, 
including the SE tax, if you work for a church (or church-controlled non-profit 
division) that does not pay the employer's part of the social security tax on 
wages. You can make the choice if you are a member of a religious sect or 
division opposed to social security and Medicare. This exemption does not apply 
to your service, if any, as a minister of a church or as a member of a religious 
order. 
You can make this choice by filing Form 4029. See Requesting exemption—Form 
4029, later, under Members of Recognized Religious Sects. 
U.S. Citizens and Resident and Nonresident Aliens
To be covered under the SE tax provisions (SECA), individuals generally must be 
citizens or resident aliens of the United States. Nonresident aliens are not 
covered under SECA. 
To determine your alien status, see Publication 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens. 
Residents of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the CNMI, and American 
Samoa.   If you are a resident of one of these U.S. possessions and not a U.S. 
citizen, for SE tax purposes you are treated the same as a citizen or resident 
alien of the United States. For information on figuring the tax, see Figuring 
Net Earnings From Self-Employment for SE Tax, later. 
Exemption From Self-Employment (SE) Tax 
You can request an exemption from SE tax if you are one of the following. 
  A minister.
  A member of a religious order who has not taken a vow of poverty.
  A Christian Science practitioner.
  A member of a recognized religious sect.

Members of religious orders who have taken a vow of poverty are exempt from 
paying SE tax, as discussed earlier under Members of Religious Orders. They do 
not have to request the exemption. 
Who cannot be exempt.   You cannot be exempt from SE tax if you made one of the 
following elections to be covered under social security. These elections are 
irrevocable. 
  You elected to be covered under social security by filing Form 2031, 
  Revocation of Exemption From Self-Employment Tax for Use by Ministers, Members 
  of Religious Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners, for your 1986, 1987, 
  2000, or 2001 tax year. 
  You elected before 1968 to be covered under social security for your 
  ministerial services.
Requesting exemption.   Table 2 briefly summarizes the procedure for requesting 
exemption from the SE tax. More detailed explanations follow. 

If you are a minister, member of a religious order, or Christian Science 
practitioner, an approved exemption only applies to earnings you receive for 
qualified services, discussed later. It does not apply to any other 
self-employment income. 
Ministers, Members of Religious Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners
To claim the exemption from SE tax, you must meet all of the following 
conditions. 
  You file Form 4361, described later under Requesting exemption—Form 4361. 
  You are conscientiously opposed to public insurance because of your individual 
  religious considerations (not because of your general conscience), or you are 
  opposed because of the principles of your religious denomination. 
  You file for other than economic reasons. 
  You inform the ordaining, commissioning, or licensing body of your church or 
  order that you are opposed to public insurance if you are a minister or a 
  member of a religious order (other than a vow-of-poverty member). This 
  requirement does not apply to Christian Science practitioners. 
  You establish that the organization that ordained, commissioned, or licensed 
  you, or your religious order, is a tax-exempt religious organization. 
  You establish that the organization is a church or a convention or association 
  of churches. 
  You did not make an election discussed earlier under Who cannot be exempt. 
  You sign and return the statement the IRS mails to you to certify that you are 
  requesting an exemption based on the grounds listed on the statement. 
Requesting exemption—Form 4361.   To request exemption from SE tax, file Form 
4361 in triplicate (original and two copies) with the IRS. 
   

The IRS will return to you a copy of the Form 4361 that you filed indicating 
whether your exemption has been approved. If it is approved, keep the approved 
copy in your permanent records. 
When to file.   File Form 4361 by the date your income tax return is due, 
including extensions, for the second tax year in which you have net earnings 
from self-employment of at least $400. This rule applies if any part of your net 
earnings for each of the two years came from your services as a: 
  Minister,
  Member of a religious order, or
  Christian Science practitioner.
The two years do not have to be consecutive tax years. 
   

The approval process can take some time, so you should file Form 4361 as soon as 
possible. 
Example 1.
Rev. Lawrence Jaeger, a clergyman ordained in 2005, has net earnings of $450 in 
2005 and $500 in 2006. He must file his application for exemption by the due 
date, including extensions, for his 2006 income tax return. However, if Rev. 
Jaeger does not receive IRS approval for an exemption by April 16, 2007, his SE 
tax for 2006 is due by that date. 
Example 2.
Rev. Louise Wolfe has $300 in net earnings as a minister in 2005, but earned 
more than $400 in both 2004 and 2006. She must file her application for 
exemption by the due date, including extensions, for her 2006 income tax return. 
However, if she does not receive IRS approval for an exemption by April 16, 
2007, her SE tax for 2006 is due by that date. 
Example 3.
In 2003, Rev. David Moss was ordained a minister and had $700 in net earnings as 
a minister. In 2004, he received $1,000 as a minister, but his related expenses 
were over $1,000. Therefore, he had no net earnings as a minister in 2004. Also 
in 2004, he opened a book store and had $8,000 in net self-employment earnings 
from the store. In 2005, he had net earnings of $1,500 as a minister and $10,000 
net self-employment earnings from the store. 
Rev. Moss had net earnings from self-employment in 2003 and 2005 that were $400 
or more each year, and part of the earnings in each of those years was for his 
services as a minister, so he must file his application for exemption by the due 
date, including extensions, for his 2005 income tax return. 
Death of individual.   The right to file an application for exemption ends with 
an individual's death. A surviving spouse, executor, or administrator cannot 
file an exemption application for a deceased clergy member. 
Effective date of exemption.   An approved exemption is effective for all tax 
years after 1967 in which you have $400 or more of net earnings from 
self-employment and any part of the earnings is for services as a member of the 
clergy. Once the exemption is approved, it is irrevocable. 
Example.
Rev. Trudy Austin, ordained in 2004, had $400 or more in net earnings as a 
minister in both 2004 and 2005. She files an application for exemption on 
February 18, 2006. If an exemption is granted, it is effective for 2004 and the 
following years. 
Refunds of SE tax.   If, after receiving an approved Form 4361, you find that 
you overpaid SE tax, you can file a claim for refund on Form 1040X before the 
period of limitations ends. This is generally within 3 years from the date you 
filed the return or within 2 years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is 
later. A return you filed, or tax you paid, before the due date is considered to 
have been filed or paid on the due date. 
  If you file a claim after the 3-year period but within 2 years from the time 
you paid the tax, the credit or refund will not be more than the tax you paid 
within the 2 years immediately before you file the claim. 
Members of Recognized Religious Sects
If you are a member of a recognized religious sect, or a division of a 
recognized religious sect, you can apply for an exemption from payment of social 
security and Medicare taxes on both your wages and self-employment income. 
Exception.   If you received social security benefits or payments, or anyone 
else received these benefits or payments based on your wages or self-employment 
income, you cannot apply. However, if you pay your benefits back, you may be 
considered for exemption. Contact your local Social Security office to find out 
the amount to be paid back. 
Eligibility requirements.   To claim this exemption from SE tax, all the 
following requirements must be met. 
  You must file Form 4029, discussed later under Requesting exemption—Form 4029.
  As a follower of the established teachings of the sect or division, you must 
  be conscientiously opposed to accepting benefits of any private or public 
  insurance that makes payments for death, disability, old age, retirement, or 
  medical care, or provides services for medical care. 
  You must waive all rights to receive any social security payment or benefit 
  and agree that no benefits or payments will be made to anyone else based on 
  your wages and self-employment income. 
  The Commissioner of Social Security must determine that: 
    Your sect or division has the established teachings as in (2) above,
    It is the practice, and has been for a substantial period of time, for 
    members of the sect or division to provide for their dependent members in a 
    manner that is reasonable in view of the members' general level of living, 
    and 
    The sect or division has existed at all times since December 31, 1950.
  If you have previously received approval for exemption from SE tax, you are 
considered to have met the requirements and do not need to apply for this 
exemption. 
Requesting exemption—Form 4029.   To request the exemption, file Form 4029 in 
triplicate with the Social Security Administration at the address shown on the 
form. The sect or division must complete part of the form. 
   

The IRS will return to you a copy of the Form 4029 that you filed indicating 
whether your exemption has been approved. If it is approved, keep the approved 
copy in your permanent records. 
When to file.   You can file Form 4029 at any time. 
Effective date of exemption.   An approved exemption generally is effective on 
the first day of the first quarter after the quarter in which Form 4029 is 
filed. It does not apply to any tax year beginning before you meet the 
eligibility requirements discussed earlier. 
  The exemption will end if you fail to meet the eligibility requirements or if 
the Commissioner of Social Security determines that the sect or division fails 
to meet them. You must notify the IRS within 60 days if you are no longer a 
member of the religious group, or if you no longer follow the established 
teachings of this group. The exemption will end on the date you notify the IRS. 
Refunds of SE tax paid.   To get a refund of any SE tax you paid while the 
exemption was in effect, file Form 1040X. For information on filing this form, 
see Refunds of SE tax under Ministers, Members of Religious Orders, and 
Christian Science Practitioners, earlier. 
Exemption From FICA Taxes 
Generally, under FICA, the employer and the employee each pay half of the social 
security and Medicare tax. Both the employee and the employer, if they meet the 
eligibility requirements discussed earlier, can apply to be exempt from their 
share of FICA taxes on wages paid by the employer to the employee. 
A partnership in which each partner holds a religious exemption from social 
security and Medicare is an employer for this purpose. 

If the employer's application is approved, the exemption will apply only to FICA 
taxes on wages paid to employees who also received an approval of identical 
applications. 
Information for employers.   If you have an approved Form 4029 and you have an 
employee who has an approved Form 4029, do not report wages you paid to the 
employee as social security and Medicare wages. 
  If you have an employee who does not have an approved Form 4029, you must 
withhold the employee's share of social security and Medicare taxes and pay the 
employer's share. 
Form W-2.   When preparing a Form W-2 for an employee with an approved Form 
4029, write “Form 4029” in the box marked “Other.” Do not make any entries in 
boxes 3, 4, 5, or 6. 
Forms 941 and 943.   If both you and your employee have received approved Forms 
4029, do not include these exempt wages on Form 941, Employer's Quarterly 
Federal Tax Return, or on Form 943, Employer's Annual Federal Tax Return for 
Agricultural Employees. 
  On Form 941, write “Form 4029” to the left of the entry spaces on the lines 
for Taxable social security wages, Taxable social security tips, and Taxable 
Medicare wages and tips. Check the box on line 4 to show that the wages are not 
subject to these taxes. 
  On Form 943, write “Form 4029” to the left of the entry spaces on the lines 
for Total wages subject to social security tax, and Total wages subject to 
Medicare tax. 
Effective date.   An approved exemption from FICA becomes effective on the first 
day of the first calendar quarter after the quarter in which Form 4029 is filed. 
The exemption will end on the last day of the calendar quarter before the 
quarter in which the employer, employee, sect, or division fails to meet the 
requirements. 
Qualified Services 
Qualified services, in general, are the services you perform in the exercise of 
your ministry or in the exercise of your duties as required by your religious 
order. Income you receive for performing qualified services is subject to SE tax 
unless you have an exemption as explained earlier. If you have an exemption, 
only the income you receive for performing qualified services is exempt. The 
exemption does not apply to any other self-employment income. 
The following discussions provide more detailed information on qualified 
services of ministers, members of religious orders, and Christian Science 
practitioners and readers. 
Ministers
Most services you perform as a minister, priest, rabbi, etc., are qualified 
services. These services include: 
  Performing sacerdotal functions,
  Conducting religious worship, and
  Controlling, conducting, and maintaining religious organizations (including 
  the religious boards, societies, and other integral agencies of such 
  organizations) that are under the authority of a religious body that is a 
  church or denomination. 
You are considered to control, conduct, and maintain a religious organization if 
you direct, manage, or promote the organization's activities. 
A religious organization is under the authority of a religious body that is a 
church or denomination if it is organized for and dedicated to carrying out the 
principles of a faith according to the requirements governing the creation of 
institutions of the faith. 
Services for nonreligious organizations.   Your services for a nonreligious 
organization are qualified services if the services are assigned or designated 
by your church. Assigned or designated services qualify even if they do not 
involve performing sacerdotal functions or conducting religious worship. 
  If your services are not assigned or designated by your church, they are 
qualified services only if they involve performing sacerdotal functions or 
conducting religious worship. 
Services that are not part of your ministry.   Income from services that are not 
qualified services is generally subject to social security and Medicare tax 
withholding (not self-employment tax) under the rules that apply to workers in 
general. The following are not qualified services. 
  Services you perform for nonreligious organizations other than the services 
  stated earlier. 
  Services you perform as a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of 
  a church as an employee of the United States, the District of Columbia, a 
  foreign government, or any of their political subdivisions. This is true even 
  if you are performing sacerdotal functions or conducting religious worship. 
  (For example, if you perform services as a chaplain in the Armed Forces of the 
  United States, the services are not qualified services.) 
  Services you perform in a government- owned and operated hospital. (These 
  services are considered performed by a government employee, not by a minister 
  as part of the ministry.) However, services that you perform at a 
  church-related hospital or health and welfare institution, or a private 
  nonprofit hospital, are considered to be part of the ministry and are 
  considered qualified services. 
Books or articles.   Writing religious books or articles is considered to be in 
the exercise of your ministry and is considered qualified services. 
  This rule also applies to members of religious orders and to Christian Science 
practitioners. 
Members of Religious Orders
Services you perform as a member of a religious order in the exercise of duties 
required by the order are qualified services. The services are qualified because 
you perform them as an agent of the order. 
For example, if you are directed to perform services for another agency of the 
supervising church or an associated institution, you are considered to perform 
the services as an agent of the order. 
However, if you are directed to work outside the order, the employment will not 
be considered a duty required by the order unless: 
  Your services are the kind that are ordinarily performed by members of the 
  order, and
  Your services are part of the duties that must be exercised for, or on behalf 
  of, the religious order as its agent. 
Effect of employee status.   Ordinarily, if your services are not considered 
directed or required of you by the order, you and the outside party for whom you 
work are considered employee and employer. In this case, your earnings from the 
services are taxed under the rules that apply to workers in general, not under 
the rules for services provided as agent for the order. This is true even if you 
have taken a vow of poverty. 
Example.
Mark Brown and Elizabeth Green are members of a religious order and have taken 
vows of poverty. They renounce all claims to their earnings. The earnings belong 
to the order. 
Mark is a licensed attorney. The superiors of the order instructed him to get a 
job with a law firm. Mark joined a law firm as an employee and, as he requested, 
the firm made the salary payments directly to the order. 
Elizabeth is a secretary. The superiors of the order instructed her to accept a 
job with the business office of the church that supervises the order. Elizabeth 
took the job and gave all her earnings to the order. 
Mark's services are not duties required by the order. His earnings are subject 
to social security and Medicare tax under FICA and federal income tax. 
Elizabeth's services are considered duties required by the order. She is acting 
as an agent of the order and not as an employee of a third party. She does not 
include the earnings in gross income, and they are not subject to income tax 
withholding, social security and Medicare tax, or SE tax. 
Christian Science Practitioners and Readers
The exemption from SE tax, discussed earlier, applies only to the services a 
Christian Science practitioner or reader performs in the exercise of his or her 
profession. If you do not have an exemption, amounts you receive for performing 
these qualified services are subject to SE tax. 
Figuring Net Earnings From Self-Employment for SE Tax 
There are two methods for figuring your net earnings from self-employment as a 
minister, member of a religious order, Christian Science practitioner, or church 
employee. 
  Regular method.
  Nonfarm optional method.

You may find Worksheets 1 through 4 helpful in figuring your net earnings from 
self-employment. Blank worksheets are in the back of this publication, after the 
Comprehensive Example. 
Regular Method
Most people use the regular method. Under this method, you figure your net 
earnings from self-employment by totaling your gross income for services you 
performed as a minister, a member of a religious order who has not taken a vow 
of poverty, or a Christian Science practitioner. Then, you subtract your 
allowable business deductions and multiply the difference by .9235 (92.35%). Use 
Schedule SE (Form 1040) to figure your net earnings and SE tax. 
If you are an employee of a church that elected to exclude you from FICA 
coverage, figure net earnings by multiplying your church wages shown on Form W-2 
by .9235. Do not reduce your wages by any business deductions when making this 
computation. Use Section B of Schedule SE (Form 1040), to figure your net 
earnings and SE tax. 

If you have an approved exemption, or you are automatically exempt, do not 
include the income or deductions from qualified services in figuring your net 
earnings from self-employment. 
Amounts included in gross income.   To figure your net earnings from 
self-employment (on Schedule SE (Form 1040)), include in gross income: 
  Salaries and fees for your qualified services (discussed earlier), 
  Offerings you receive for marriages, baptisms, funerals, masses, etc.,
  The value of meals and lodging provided to you, your spouse, and your 
  dependents for your employer's convenience,
  The fair rental value of a parsonage provided to you (including the cost of 
  utilities that are furnished) and the rental allowance (including an amount 
  for payment of utilities) paid to you, and 
  Any amount a church pays toward your income tax or SE tax, other than 
  withholding the amount from your salary. This amount is also subject to income 
  tax. 
  For the income tax treatment of items (2) and (4), see Income Tax: Income and 
Expenses, later. 
Example.
Pastor Roger Adams receives an annual salary of $16,500 as a full-time minister. 
The $16,500 includes $1,500 that is designated as a rental allowance to pay 
utilities. His church owns a parsonage that has a fair rental value of $5,200 
per year. Pastor Adams is given the use of the parsonage. He is not exempt from 
SE tax. He must include $21,700 ($16,500 plus $5,200) when figuring net earnings 
from self-employment. 
The results would be the same if, instead of the use of the parsonage and 
receipt of the rental allowance for utilities, Pastor Adams had received an 
annual salary of $21,700 of which $6,700 ($1,500 plus $5,200) per year was 
designated as a rental allowance. 
Overseas duty.   Your net earnings from self-employment are determined without 
any foreign earned income exclusion or the foreign housing exclusion or 
deduction if you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien who is serving abroad and 
living in a foreign country. 
  For information on excluding foreign earned income or the foreign housing 
amount, get Publication 54. 
Example.
Paul Jones was the minister of a U.S. church in Mexico. He earned $22,000 and 
was able to exclude it all for income tax purposes under the foreign earned 
income exclusion. However, Mr. Jones must include $22,000 when figuring net 
earnings from self-employment. 
Specified U.S. possessions.   The exclusion from gross income for amounts 
derived in American Samoa or Puerto Rico does not apply in computing net 
earnings from self-employment. Also see Residents of Puerto Rico, the Virgin 
Islands, Guam, the CNMI, and American Samoa, earlier, under U.S. Citizens and 
Resident and Nonresident Aliens. 
Amounts not included in gross income.   Do not include the following amounts in 
gross income when figuring your net earnings from self-employment. 
  Offerings that others made to the church. 
  Contributions by your church to a tax-sheltered annuity plan set up for you, 
  including any salary reduction contributions (elective deferrals), that are 
  not included in your gross income. 
  Pension payments or retirement allowances you receive for your past qualified 
  services. 
  The rental value of a parsonage or a parsonage allowance provided to you after 
  you retire. 
Allowable deductions.   When figuring your net earnings from self-employment, 
deduct all your nonemployee ministerial expenses. Also, deduct all your 
allowable unreimbursed trade or business expenses that you incur in performing 
ministerial services as a common-law employee of the church. Include this net 
amount on Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 2. 
Nonemployee ministerial expenses.   These are qualified expenses you incurred 
while not working as a common-law employee of the church. They include expenses 
incurred in performing marriages and baptisms, and in delivering speeches. 
Reimbursement arrangements.   If you received an advance, allowance, or 
reimbursement for your expenses, how you report this amount and your expenses 
depends on whether the reimbursement was paid to you under an accountable plan 
or a nonaccountable plan. If you are not sure if you are reimbursed from an 
accountable plan or a nonaccountable plan, ask your employer. 
Accountable plans.   To be an accountable plan, your employer's reimbursement 
arrangement must include all three of the following rules. 
  Your expenses must have a business connection — that is, you must have paid or 
  incurred deductible expenses while performing services as an employee of your 
  employer. 
  You must adequately account to your employer for these expenses within a 
  reasonable period of time.
  You must return any excess reimbursement or allowance within a reasonable 
  period of time.
  Generally, if your expenses equal your reimbursement, you have no deduction 
and the reimbursement is not reported on your Form W-2. If your expenses are 
more than your reimbursement, you can deduct your excess expenses for SE tax and 
income tax purposes. 
Nonaccountable plan.   A nonaccountable plan is a reimbursement arrangement that 
does not meet at least one of the three rules listed under Accountable plans. In 
addition, even if your employer has an accountable plan, the following payments 
will be treated as being paid under a nonaccountable plan. 
  Excess reimbursements you fail to return to your employer.
  Reimbursement of nondeductible expenses related to your employer's business.
  Your employer will combine any reimbursement paid to you under a 
nonaccountable plan with your wages, salary, or other compensation. Your 
employer will report the combined total in box 1 of your Form W-2. You can 
deduct your related expenses (for SE tax and income tax purposes) regardless of 
whether they are more than, less than, or equal to your reimbursement. 
  For more information on accountable and nonaccountable plans, see Publication 
463, Travel, Entertainment, Gift, and Car Expenses. 
Husband and Wife Missionary Team 
If a husband and wife are both duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed 
ministers of a church and have an agreement that each will perform specific 
services for which they are paid jointly or separately, they must divide the 
self-employment income according to the agreement. 
If the agreement is with one spouse only and the other spouse is not paid for 
any specific duties, amounts received for their services are included in only 
the self-employment income of the spouse having the agreement. 
Maximum Earnings Subject to SE Tax 
For 2005, the maximum net earnings from self-employment subject to social 
security (old age, survivors, and disability insurance) tax is $90,000 minus any 
wages and tips you earned that were subject to social security tax. The tax rate 
for the social security part is 12.4%. In addition, all of your net earnings are 
subject to the Medicare (hospital insurance) part of the SE tax. This tax rate 
is 2.9%. The combined self-employment tax rate is 15.3%. 
Nonfarm Optional Method
You may be able to use the nonfarm optional method for figuring your net 
earnings from self-employment. In general, the nonfarm optional method is 
intended to permit continued coverage for social security and Medicare purposes 
when your income for the tax year is low. 
You may use the nonfarm optional method if you meet all the following tests. 
  You are self-employed on a regular basis. This means that your actual net 
  earnings from self-employment were $400 or more in at least 2 of the 3 tax 
  years before the one for which you use this method. The net earnings can be 
  from either farm or nonfarm earnings or both. 
  You have used this method less than 5 years. (There is a 5-year lifetime 
  limit.) The years do not have to be one after another.
  Your net nonfarm profits were: 
    Less than $1,733, and
    Less than 72.189% of your gross nonfarm income.
If you meet the three tests, use Table 3 to figure your net earnings from 
self-employment under the nonfarm optional method. 
      IF your gross nonfarm income is ... THEN your net earnings are equal to 
      ... 
      $2,400 or less Two-thirds of your gross nonfarm income. 
      More than $2,400 $1,600. 

Actual net earnings.   Your actual net earnings are 92.35% of your total 
earnings subject to SE tax (multiply total earnings subject to SE tax by 92.35% 
(.9235) to get actual net earnings). Actual net earnings are equivalent to net 
earnings using the “Regular Method.” 
More information.   For more information on the nonfarm optional method, see 
Publication 334 and the Schedule SE (Form 1040) instructions. 
Income Tax: Income and Expenses 
Some income and expense items are treated the same for income tax and SE tax 
purposes and some are treated differently. 
Income Items
The tax treatment of offerings and fees, outside earnings, rental allowances, 
rental value of parsonage, pay of members of religious orders, and foreign 
earned income is discussed here. 
Offerings and Fees 
If you are a member of the clergy, you must include in your income offerings and 
fees you receive for marriages, baptisms, funerals, masses, etc., in addition to 
your salary. If the offering is made to the religious institution, it is not 
taxable to you. 
Outside Earnings 
If you are a member of a religious organization and you give your outside 
earnings to the organization, you still must include the earnings in your 
income. However, you may be entitled to a charitable contribution deduction for 
the amount paid to the organization. For more information see Publication 526. 
Exclusion of Rental Allowance and Fair Rental Value of a Parsonage 
Ordained, commissioned, or licensed ministers of the gospel may be able to 
exclude the rental allowance or fair rental value of a parsonage that is 
provided to them as pay for their services. Services include: 
  Qualified services, discussed earlier,
  Administrative duties and teaching at theological seminaries, and
  The ordinary duties of a minister performed as an employee of the United 
  States (other than as a chaplain in the Armed Forces), a state, possession, 
  political subdivision, or the District of Columbia. 
This exclusion applies only for income tax purposes. It does not apply for SE 
tax purposes, as discussed earlier under Figuring Net Earnings From 
Self-Employment for SE Tax. 
Designation requirement.   The church or organization that employs you must 
officially designate the payment as a housing allowance before the payment is 
made. A definite amount must be designated. The amount of the housing allowance 
cannot be determined at a later date. 
  If you are employed and paid by a local congregation, a resolution by a 
national church agency of your denomination does not effectively designate a 
housing allowance for you. The local congregation must officially designate the 
part of your salary that is to be a housing allowance. However, a resolution of 
a national church agency can designate your housing allowance if you are 
directly employed by the agency. If no part has been officially designated, you 
must include your total salary in your income. 
Rental allowances.   If you receive in your pay an amount officially designated 
as a rental allowance (including an amount to pay utility costs), you can 
exclude the allowance from your gross income if: 
  The amount is used to provide or rent a home, and
  The amount is not more than reasonable pay for your services. 
  The amount you exclude cannot be more than the fair rental value of the home, 
including furnishings, plus the cost of utilities. 
Fair rental value of parsonage.   You can exclude from gross income the fair 
rental value of a house or parsonage, including utilities, furnished to you as 
part of your pay. However, the exclusion cannot be more than the reasonable pay 
for your services. If you pay for the utilities, you can exclude any allowance 
designated for utility costs, up to your actual cost. 
Example.
Rev. Joanna Baker is a full-time minister at the Central Mission Church. The 
church allows her to use the parsonage that has an annual fair rental value of 
$4,800. The church pays her an annual salary of $13,200, of which $1,200 is 
designated for utility costs. Her utility costs during the year were $1,000. 
For income tax purposes, Rev. Baker excludes $5,800 from gross income (the fair 
rental value of the parsonage plus $1,000 from the allowance for utility costs). 
She will report $12,200 ($12,000 salary and $200 of unused utility allowance). 
Her income for SE tax purposes, however, is $18,000 ($13,200 salary + $4,800 
fair rental value of the parsonage). 
Home ownership.   If you own your home and you receive as part of your pay a 
housing or rental allowance, you may exclude from gross income the smallest of 
the following. 
  The amount actually used to provide a home, 
  The amount officially designated as a rental allowance, or
  The fair rental value of the home, including furnishings, utilities, garage, 
  etc. 
Excess rental allowance.   You must include in gross income the amount of any 
rental allowance that is more than the smallest of your reasonable pay, the fair 
rental value of the home plus utilities, or the amount actually used to provide 
a home. 
  Include the excess rental allowance on Form 1040, line 7. 

You may deduct the home mortgage interest and real estate taxes you pay on your 
home even though all or part of the mortgage is paid with funds you get through 
a tax-free rental or parsonage allowance. 
Retired ministers.   If you are a retired minister, you exclude from your gross 
income the rental value of a home (plus utilities) furnished to you by your 
church as a part of your pay for past services, or the part of your pension that 
was designated as a rental allowance. However, a minister's surviving spouse 
cannot exclude the rental value unless the rental value is for ministerial 
services he or she performs or performed. 
Teachers or administrators.   If you are a minister employed as a teacher or 
administrator by a church school, college, or university, you are performing 
ministerial services for purposes of the housing exclusion. However, if you 
perform services as a teacher or administrator on the faculty of a nonchurch 
college, you cannot exclude from your income a housing allowance or the value of 
a home that is provided to you. 
   

If you live in faculty lodging as an employee of an educational institution or 
academic health center, all or part of the value of that lodging may be 
nontaxable under a different rule. See Faculty lodging in the discussion on 
meals and lodging under Fringe Benefits, in Publication 525. 
  If you serve as a minister of music or minister of education, or serve in an 
administrative or other function of your religious organization, but are not 
authorized to perform substantially all of the religious duties of an ordained 
minister in your church (even if you are commissioned as a minister of the 
gospel), the housing exclusion does not apply to you. 
Theological students.   If you are a theological student serving a required 
internship as a part-time or assistant pastor, you cannot exclude a parsonage or 
rental allowance from your income unless you are ordained, commissioned, or 
licensed as a minister. 
Traveling evangelists.   You can exclude a designated rental allowance from 
out-of-town churches if you meet all of the following requirements. 
  You are an ordained minister.
  You perform qualified services at churches located away from your community.
  You actually use the rental allowance to maintain your permanent home.
Cantors.   If you have a bona fide commission and your congregation employs you 
on a full-time basis to perform substantially all the religious functions of the 
Jewish faith, you can exclude a rental allowance from your gross income. 
Pay—Members of Religious Orders 
Your pay may be exempt from both income tax and SE tax if you are a member of a 
religious order who: 
  Has taken a vow of poverty,
  Receives pay for services performed as an agent of the order and in the 
  exercise of duties required by the order, and
  Renounces the pay and gives it to the order.
See Members of Religious Orders, earlier, under Social Security Coverage. 
Foreign Earned Income 
Certain income may be exempt from income tax if you work in a foreign country or 
in a specified U.S. possession. Publication 54 discusses the foreign earned 
income exclusion. Publication 570, Tax Guide for Individuals With Income From 
U.S. Possessions, covers the rules for taxpayers with income from U.S. 
possessions. You can get these free publications from the Internal Revenue 
Service or from most U.S. Embassies or consulates. 
Expense Items
The tax treatment of ministerial trade or business expenses, expenses allocable 
to tax-free income, and health insurance costs is discussed here. 
Ministerial Trade or Business Expenses as an Employee 
When you figure your income tax, you must itemize your deductions on Schedule A 
(Form 1040) to claim allowable deductions for ministerial trade or business 
expenses incurred while working as an employee. You also may have to file Form 
2106, Employee Business Expenses (or Form 2106-EZ, Unreimbursed Employee 
Business Expenses). 
These expenses are claimed as miscellaneous itemized deductions and are subject 
to the 2%-of-adjusted-gross-income (AGI) limit. See Publication 529 for more 
information on this limit. 
Additionally, these expenses may have to be reduced by the amount that is 
allocable to tax-free income (discussed next) before being limited by the 2% AGI 
limit. 
Expenses Allocable to Tax-Free Income 
If you receive a rental or parsonage allowance that is exempt from income tax 
(tax free), you must allocate a portion of the expenses of operating your 
ministry to that tax-free income. You cannot deduct the portion of your expenses 
that is allocated to your tax-free rental or parsonage allowance. 
Exception.   This rule does not apply to your deductions for home mortgage 
interest or real estate taxes on your home. 
Figuring the allocation.   Figure the portion of your otherwise deductible 
expenses that you cannot deduct (because that portion must be allocated to 
tax-free income) by multiplying the expenses by the following fraction: 
   
       Tax-free rental or parsonage allowance  
       All income (taxable and tax free) earned from your ministry  

  When figuring the allocation, include the income and expenses related to the 
ministerial duties you perform both as an employee and as a self-employed 
person. 
   

Reduce your otherwise deductible expenses only in figuring your income tax, not 
your SE tax. 
Example.
Rev. Charles Ashford received $40,000 in ministerial earnings consisting of a 
$28,000 salary for ministerial services, $2,000 for weddings and baptisms, and a 
$10,000 tax-free parsonage allowance. He incurred $4,000 of unreimbursed 
expenses connected with his ministerial earnings. $3,500 of the $4,000 is 
related to his ministerial salary, and $500 is related to the weddings and 
baptisms he performed as a self-employed person. 
The nondeductible portion of expenses related to Rev. Ashford's ministerial 
salary is figured as follows: 
      ($10,000 ÷ $40,000) x $3,500 = $875 

The nondeductible portion of expenses related to Rev. Ashford's wedding and 
baptism income is figured as follows: 
      ($10,000 ÷ $40,000) x $500 = $125 

Required statement.   If you receive a tax-free rental or parsonage allowance 
and have ministerial expenses, attach a statement to your tax return. The 
statement must contain all of the following information. 
  A list of each item of taxable ministerial income by source (such as wages, 
  salary, weddings, baptisms, etc.) plus the amount.
  A list of each item of tax-free ministerial income by source (parsonage 
  allowance) plus the amount.
  A list of each item of otherwise deductible ministerial expenses plus the 
  amount.
  How you figured the nondeductible part of your otherwise deductible expenses.
  A statement that the other deductions claimed on your tax return are not 
  allocable to your tax-free income.
  See the statement prepared for the Comprehensive Example, later. Worksheets 1 
through 4 may be helpful in preparing your statement. 
Health Insurance Costs of Self-Employed Ministers 
If you are self-employed, you may be able to deduct the amount you paid in 2005 
for medical and dental insurance and qualified long-term care insurance for you, 
your spouse, and your dependents. 
If you qualify, you can take this deduction as an adjustment to income on Form 
1040, line 29. See the instructions for Form 1040 to figure your deduction. 
The following special rules apply to the self-employed health insurance 
deduction. 
  The expenses taken into account for purposes of this deduction are not allowed 
  as a medical expense deduction on Schedule A. 
  The deduction is not allowed for any month you are eligible to participate in 
  a subsidized plan of your (or your spouse's) employer. 
  The deduction is not used to reduce your net earnings for your SE tax.
  The deduction cannot exceed your net earnings from the business under which 
  the insurance plan is established. Your net earnings under this rule do not 
  include the income you earned as a common-law employee (discussed earlier) of 
  a church. 
More information.   For more information about the self-employed health 
insurance deduction, see chapter 7 in Publication 535. 
Deduction for SE Tax 
You can deduct one-half of your SE tax in figuring adjusted gross income. This 
is an income tax deduction only, and you deduct it on Form 1040, line 27. 

This is not a deduction in figuring net earnings from self-employment subject to 
SE tax. 
Income Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
The federal income tax is a pay-as-you-go tax. You must pay the tax as you earn 
or receive income during the year. An employee usually has income tax withheld 
from his or her pay. However, your pay generally is not subject to federal 
income tax withholding if both the following conditions apply. 
  You are a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister, a member of a 
  religious order (who has not taken a vow of poverty), or a Christian Science 
  practitioner. 
  Your pay is for qualified services (see Qualified Services, earlier). 
If your salary is not subject to withholding, or if you do not pay enough tax 
through withholding, you might have to pay estimated tax to avoid penalties for 
not paying enough tax as you earn your income. 
You generally must make estimated tax payments if you expect to owe taxes, 
including SE tax, of $1,000 or more, when you file your return. 
Determine your estimated tax by using the worksheet in Form 1040-ES. Then, using 
the Form 1040-ES payment voucher, pay the entire estimated tax or the first 
installment by April 17, 2006. The April 17 date applies whether or not your tax 
home and your abode are outside the United States and Puerto Rico. For more 
information see Publication 505, Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax. 
If you perform your services as a common-law employee of the church and your pay 
is not subject to income tax withholding, you can enter into a voluntary 
withholding agreement with the church to cover any income and SE tax that may be 
due. 
Filing Your Return 
You have to file an income tax return for 2005 if your gross income was at least 
the amount shown in the third column of Table 4. 
Table 4. 2005 Filing Requirements for Most Taxpayers
      IF your filing status is ... AND at the end of 2005 
      you were ...* THEN file a return if your gross income was at least ...** 
      Single under age 65 
      65 or older  $8,200 
      9,450  
      Married filing jointly*** under 65 (both spouses) 
      65 or older (one spouse) 
      65 or older (both spouses)  $16,400 
      17,400 
      18,400  
      Married filing separately any age  $3,200  
      Head of household under 65 
      65 or older  $10,500 
      11,750  
      Qualifying widow(er) with dependent child under 65 
      65 or older  $13,200 
      14,200  

      * If you were born on January 1, 1941, you are considered to be age 65 at 
      the end of 2005. 
      ** Gross income means all income you received in the form of money, goods, 
      property, and services that is not exempt from tax,including any income 
      from sources outside the United States (even if you may exclude part or 
      all of it). Do not include social security benefits unless you are married 
      filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time in 
      2005. 
      *** If you did not live with your spouse at the end of 2005 (or on the 
      date your spouse died) and your gross income was at least $3,200, you must 
      file a return regardless of your age. 

Table 4. 2005 Filing Requirements for Most Taxpayers
      IF your filing status is ... AND at the end of 2005 
      you were ...* THEN file a return if your gross income was at least ...** 
      Single under age 65 
      65 or older  $8,200 
      9,450  
      Married filing jointly*** under 65 (both spouses) 
      65 or older (one spouse) 
      65 or older (both spouses)  $16,400 
      17,400 
      18,400  
      Married filing separately any age  $3,200  
      Head of household under 65 
      65 or older  $10,500 
      11,750  
      Qualifying widow(er) with dependent child under 65 
      65 or older  $13,200 
      14,200  

      * If you were born on January 1, 1941, you are considered to be age 65 at 
      the end of 2005. 
      ** Gross income means all income you received in the form of money, goods, 
      property, and services that is not exempt from tax,including any income 
      from sources outside the United States (even if you may exclude part or 
      all of it). Do not include social security benefits unless you are married 
      filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time in 
      2005. 
      *** If you did not live with your spouse at the end of 2005 (or on the 
      date your spouse died) and your gross income was at least $3,200, you must 
      file a return regardless of your age. 

Additional requirements.   Even if your income was less than the amount shown in 
Table 4, you must file an income tax return on Form 1040, and attach a completed 
Schedule SE (Form 1040), if: 
   
  You are not exempt from SE tax, and you have net earnings from self-employment 
  (discussed earlier under Figuring Net Earnings From Self-Employment for SE 
  Tax) of $400 or more in the tax year, 
  You are exempt from SE tax on earnings from qualified services and you have 
  $400 or more of other earnings subject to SE tax, or 
  You had wages of $108.28 or more from an electing church or church-controlled 
  organization (see Religious Workers (Church Employees), earlier, under Social 
  Security Coverage). 
Self-employment tax.   If you are liable for SE tax, you must file Schedule SE 
(Form 1040) with your return. 
Exemption from SE tax.   If you filed Form 4361 and received IRS approval not to 
be taxed on those earnings, and you do not have any other income subject to SE 
tax, do not file Schedule SE (Form 1040). Instead, write “Exempt—Form 4361” on 
Form 1040, line 58. 
  If you filed Form 4029 and received IRS approval not to be taxed on those 
earnings, and you do not have any other income subject to SE tax, do not file 
Schedule SE (Form 1040). Instead, write “Exempt—Form 4029” on Form 1040, line 
58. 
More information.   For more information on filing your return, including when 
and where to file it, see the instructions for Form 1040. 
Retirement Savings Arrangements 
Retirement savings arrangements are plans that offer you a tax-favored way to 
save for your retirement. You generally can deduct your contributions to the 
plan. Your contributions and the earnings on them are not taxed until they are 
distributed. 
Retirement plans for the self-employed.   To set up a qualified retirement plan 
(also called a Keogh or H.R. 10 plan), a simplified employee pension (SEP) plan, 
or a SIMPLE plan, you must be self-employed. 
  The common-law rules determine whether you are an employee or a self-employed 
person for purposes of setting up a retirement plan. See Employment Status for 
Other Tax Purposes, earlier, under Social Security Coverage. This is true even 
if your pay for qualified services (discussed earlier) is subject to SE tax. 
  For example, if a congregation pays you a salary for performing qualified 
services, and you are subject to the congregation's control, you are a 
common-law employee. You are not a self-employed person for purposes of setting 
up a retirement plan. This is true even if your salary is subject to SE tax. 
  On the other hand, amounts received directly from members of the congregation, 
such as fees for performing marriages, baptisms, or other personal services that 
are reported on Schedule C or C-EZ, are earnings from self-employment for all 
tax purposes. 
  For more information on establishing a SEP, SIMPLE, or qualified retirement 
plan, see Publication 560, Retirement Plans for Small Business. 
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs).   The traditional IRA and the Roth 
IRA are two individual retirement arrangements you can use to save money for 
your retirement. You generally are allowed to make contributions to either a 
traditional or a Roth IRA of up to $4,000 ($4,500 if you are age 50 or older) 
for 2005, or the amount of your pay, whichever is less. The most you can 
contribute for 2005, regardless of whether you contribute to one or both of 
these IRAs, is $4,000 ($4,500 if you are age 50 or older). Contributions to a 
traditional IRA may be deductible. Your deduction for contributions to your 
traditional IRA may be reduced or eliminated if you or your spouse is covered by 
an employer retirement plan (including, but not limited to a SEP or SIMPLE, or 
qualified retirement plan). Unlike contributions to a traditional IRA, 
contributions to a Roth IRA are not deductible. However, if you satisfy certain 
requirements, all earnings in the Roth IRA are tax free and neither your 
nondeductible contributions nor any earnings on them are taxable when you 
withdraw them. 
  For more information on IRAs, see Publication 590. 
Tax-sheltered annuity plans.   Church employees, members of religious orders, 
and duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed ministers working as ministers or 
chaplains can participate in tax-sheltered annuity (403(b)) plans. For more 
information, see Publication 571, Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plans (403(b) Plans) For 
Employees of Public Schools and Certain Tax-Exempt Organizations. 
Deducting contributions to tax-sheltered annuity plans.   You generally cannot 
deduct contributions to a tax-sheltered annuity (403(b)) plan on your tax 
return. However, an exception applies to your contributions if you are a 
minister or chaplain and, in the exercise of your ministry, you are either 
self-employed or employed by an organization that is not exempt from tax under 
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. If the exception applies, you 
can deduct your contributions to a 403(b) plan as explained next. 
  If you are self-employed, deduct your contributions on Form 1040, line 28. 
  If you are not self-employed and your employer does not exclude your 
  contributions from your earned income, deduct your contributions on Form 1040, 
  line 36. Enter the amount of your deduction and “403(b)” on the dotted line 
  next to line 36. 
Retirement savings contributions credit.   You may be able to take a tax credit 
for certain contributions you make to any of the retirement plans or IRAs 
discussed above. The amount of the credit is based on the contributions you make 
and your credit rate. The maximum contribution eligible for the credit is 
$2,000. The credit rate can be as low as 10% or as high as 50%, depending on 
your adjusted gross income. You figure the credit on Form 8880, Credit for 
Qualified Retirement Savings Contributions. 
  You cannot take the credit if any of the following apply. 
  You were born after January 1, 1988.
  You were a full-time student in 2005.
  Someone, such as your parent(s), claims an exemption for you on his or her 
  2005 tax return.
  Your adjusted gross income for 2005 is more than: 
    $25,000, if your filing status is single, married filing separately, or 
    qualifying widow(er) with dependent child.
    $37,500, if your filing status is head of household.
    $50,000, if your filing status is married filing jointly.
  When figuring adjusted gross income, you must add back any exclusion or 
deduction claimed for the year for: 
  Foreign earned income,
  Foreign housing costs,
  Income of bona fide residents of American Samoa, and
  Income of bona fide residents of Puerto Rico.
More information.   For more information about the credit, see Publication 590. 
Earned Income Credit 
The earned income credit is a credit for certain people who work. If you qualify 
for it, the earned income credit reduces the tax you owe. Even if you do not owe 
tax, you can get a refund of the credit. Also, you may be able to get part of 
the credit added to your pay instead of waiting until after the end of the year. 

You cannot take the credit if your earned income (or adjusted gross income) is: 
  $11,750 or more ($13,750 or more for married filing jointly) and you do not 
  have a qualifying child,
  $31,030 or more ($33,030 or more for married filing jointly) and you have one 
  qualifying child, or
  $35,263 or more ($37,263 or more for married filing jointly) and you have more 
  than one qualifying child.
Earned income.   Earned income includes your: 
  Wages, salaries, tips, and
  Net earnings from self-employment minus the amount you claimed (or should have 
  claimed) on Form 1040, line 27, for one-half of your SE tax. 
Earned income for a minister with an approved Form 4361.   If you have earnings 
from qualified services that are exempt from SECA (have an approved Form 4361), 
amounts you received for performing ministerial duties as an employee are earned 
income. This includes wages, salaries, tips, and other taxable employee pay. 
  Amounts you received for nonemployee ministerial duties are not earned income. 
This includes fees for performing marriages and baptisms, and honoraria for 
delivering speeches. 
  If you had nonministerial duties, any net earnings from self-employment, minus 
one-half of your SE tax, and any pay received as an employee, is earned income. 
Earned income for a minister whose income from qualified services is not exempt 
from SECA.   Earned income includes your net earnings from self-employment plus 
any pay you received for nonministerial duties minus your Form 1040, line 27, 
amount for one-half of SE tax. 
  Your net earnings from self-employment include those net earnings from 
qualified services. See Figuring Net Earnings From Self-Employment for SE Tax, 
earlier. Net earnings also include net earnings from self-employment related to 
nonministerial duties. 
Earned income for a member of a recognized religious sect with an approved Form 
4029.   If you have an approved Form 4029, all wages, salaries, tips, and other 
taxable employee compensation are earned income. Amounts you received as a 
self-employed individual are not earned income. Also, in figuring earned income, 
losses from Schedules C, C-EZ, or F cannot be subtracted from wages on Form 
1040, line 7. 
More information.   For the detailed rules on this credit, see Publication 596. 
To figure the amount of your credit, you can either fill out a worksheet or have 
the IRS compute the credit for you. You may need to complete Schedule EIC and 
attach it to your tax return. For details on getting part of the credit added to 
your pay, get Form W-5, Earned Income Credit Advance Payment Certificate, from 
your employer or the IRS. 
Comprehensive Example 
Rev. John Michaels is the minister of the First United Church. He is married and 
has one child. The child is considered a qualifying child for the child tax 
credit. Mrs. Michaels is not employed outside the home. Rev. Michaels is a 
common-law employee of the church, and he has not applied for an exemption from 
SE tax. 
The church paid Rev. Michaels a salary of $31,000. In addition, as a 
self-employed person, he earned $4,000 during the year for weddings, baptisms, 
and honoraria. He made estimated tax payments during the year totaling $8,400. 
He taught a course at the local community college, for which he was paid $3,400. 

Rev. Michaels owns a home next to the church. He makes an $800 per month 
mortgage payment of principal and interest only. The church paid him $800 per 
month as his parsonage allowance (excluding utilities). The home's fair rental 
value is $900 per month. The utility bills for the year totaled $960. The church 
paid him $100 per month designated as an allowance for utility costs. 
The parts of Rev. and Mrs. Michaels' income tax return are explained in the 
order they are completed. They are illustrated in the order that the Rev. 
Michaels will assemble the return to send it to the IRS. 
Form W-2 From Church
The church completed its Form W-2 for Rev. Michaels as follows: 
Box 1.    The church entered Rev. Michaels' $31,000 salary. 
Box 2.    The church left this box blank because Rev. Michaels did not request 
federal income tax withholding. 
Boxes 3 through 6.   Rev. Michaels is considered a self-employed person for 
purposes of social security and Medicare tax withholding, so the church left 
these boxes blank. 
Box 14.    The church entered Rev. Michaels' total parsonage and utilities 
allowance for the year and identified them. 
Form W-2 From College
The community college gave Rev. Michaels a Form W-2 that showed the following. 
Box 1.    The college entered Rev. Michaels' $3,400 salary. 
Box 2.    The college withheld $272 in federal income tax on Rev. Michaels' 
behalf. 
Boxes 3 and 5.    As an employee of the college, Rev. Michaels is subject to 
social security and Medicare withholding on his full salary from the college. 
Box 4.    The college withheld $210.80 in social security taxes. 
Box 6.    The college withheld $49.30 in Medicare taxes. 
Schedule C-EZ (Form 1040)
Some of Rev. Michaels' entries on Schedule C-EZ are explained here. 
Line 1.    Rev. Michaels reports the $4,000 from weddings, baptisms, and 
honoraria. 
Line 2.    Rev. Michaels reports his expenses related to the line 1 amount. The 
total consisted of $87 for marriage and family booklets and $198 for 459 miles 
of business use of his car, mainly in connection with honoraria. Rev. Michaels 
used the standard mileage rate to figure his car expense, as follows. 
      January 1-August 31: 
      306 miles × 40.5 cents $124 
      September 1-December 31: 
      153 miles × 48.5 cents 74
      Total $198 

  These expenses total $285 ($198 + $87). However, he cannot deduct the part of 
his expenses allocable to his tax-free parsonage allowance. He attaches the 
required statement, Attachment 1(shown later), to his return showing that 23% 
(or $66) of his business expenses are not deductible because they are allocable 
to that allowance. He subtracts the $66 from the $285 and enters the $219 
difference on line 2. 
Line 3.    He enters his net profit of $3,781 both on line 3 and on Form 1040, 
line 12. 
Lines 4 through 8b.    Rev. Michaels fills out these lines to report information 
about his car. 
Form 2106-EZ
Rev. Michaels fills out Form 2106-EZ to report the unreimbursed business 
expenses he had as a common-law employee of First United Church. 
Line 1.    Before completing line 1, Rev. Michaels fills out Part II because he 
used his car for church business. His records show that he drove 2,600 business 
miles, which he reports in Part II. On line 1, he figures his car expense as 
follows. 
   
      January 1-August 31: 
      1733 miles × 40.5 cents $ 702 
      September 1-December 31: 
      867 miles × 48.5 cents 420
      Total $1,122 

Line 4.    He enters $219 for his professional publications and booklets. 
Line 6.    Before entering the total expenses on line 6, Rev. Michaels must 
reduce them by the amount allocable to his tax-free parsonage allowance. On the 
required Attachment 1 (shown later), he shows that 23% (or $308) of his employee 
business expenses are not deductible because they are allocable to the tax-free 
parsonage allowance. He subtracts $308 from $1,341 and enters the result, 
$1,033, on line 6. He also enters $1,033 on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 20. 
Schedule A (Form 1040)
Rev. Michaels fills out Schedule A as explained here. 
Line 6.    Rev. Michaels deducts $1,750 in real estate taxes. 
Line 10.    He deducts $6,810 of home mortgage interest. 
Line 15.    Rev. and Mrs. Michaels contributed $4,800 in cash during the year to 
various qualifying charities. Each individual contribution was less than $250. 
Line 20.    Rev. Michaels enters his unreimbursed employee business expenses 
from Form 2106-EZ, line 6. 
Lines 24, 25, and 26.    He can deduct only the part of his employee business 
expenses that exceeds 2% of his adjusted gross income. He fills out these lines 
to figure the amount he can deduct. 
Line 28.    The total of all the Michaels' itemized deductions is $13,687, which 
they enter on line 28 and on Form 1040, line 40. 
Schedule SE (Form 1040)
After Rev. Michaels prepares Schedule C-EZ and Form 2106-EZ, he fills out 
Schedule SE (Form 1040). He reads the chart on page 1 of the schedule which 
tells him he can use Section A—Short Schedule SE to figure his self-employment 
tax. Rev. Michaels is a minister, so his salary from the church is not 
considered church employee income. Thus, he does not have to use Section B—Long 
Schedule SE. He fills out the following lines in Section A. 
Line 2.    Rev. Michaels attaches a statement (see Attachment 2, later) that 
explains how he figures the amount ($44,174) to enter. 
Line 4.   He multiplies $44,174 by .9235 to get his net earnings from 
self-employment ($40,795). 
Line 5.   The amount on line 4 is less than $90,000, so Rev. Michaels multiplies 
the amount on line 4 ($40,795) by .153 to get his self-employment tax of $6,242. 
He enters that amount here and on Form 1040, line 58. 
Line 6.   Rev. Michaels multiplies the amount on line 5 by .5 to get his 
deduction for one-half of self-employment tax of $3,121. He enters that amount 
here and on Form 1040, line 27. 
Form 1040
After Rev. Michaels prepares Form 2106-EZ and the other schedules, he fills out 
Form 1040. He files a joint return with his wife. First he fills out the address 
area and completes the appropriate lines for his filing status and exemptions. 
Then, he fills out the rest of the form as follows: 
Line 7.    Rev. Michaels reports $34,640. This amount is the total of his 
$31,000 church salary, $3,400 college salary, and $240, the excess of his 
utility allowance over his utility costs. The two salaries were reported to him 
in box 1 of the Forms W-2 he received. 
Line 12.    He reports his net profit of $3,781 from Schedule C-EZ, line 3. 
Line 27.    He enters $3,121, half his SE tax from Schedule SE, line 6. 
Line 40.    He enters the total itemized deductions from Schedule A, line 28. 
Line 52.    The Michaels can take the child tax credit for their daughter, 
Jennifer. Rev. Michaels figures the credit by completing the Child Tax Credit 
Worksheet (not shown) in the instructions for Form 1040. He enters $1000 credit 
on line 52. 
Line 58.    He enters the self-employment tax from Schedule SE, line 5. 
Line 64.    He enters the federal income tax shown in box 2 of his Form W-2 from 
the college. 
Line 65.    He enters the $8,400 estimated tax payments he made for the year. 
Line 74.   He wants to have any overpayment of tax applied to his 2006 estimated 
tax. 
Attachment 1
Attachment 1 shows the computation of expenses that are nondeductible because 
they are allocable to tax-free ministerial income. 
Attachment 2
Attachment 2 shows the computation of net self-employment income. 
This image is too large to be displayed in the current screen. Please click the 
link to view the image.
Forms W-2, (2) for John E. Michaels 
This image is too large to be displayed in the current screen. Please click the 
link to view the image.
Form 1040, page 1 for John E. and Susan R. Michaels
This image is too large to be displayed in the current screen. Please click the 
link to view the image.
Form 1040, page 2 
This image is too large to be displayed in the current screen. Please click the 
link to view the image.
Schedule A (Form 1040) 
This image is too large to be displayed in the current screen. Please click the 
link to view the image.
Schedule C–EZ (Form 1040) 
This image is too large to be displayed in the current screen. Please click the 
link to view the image.
Schedule SE (Form 1040) 
This image is too large to be displayed in the current screen. Please click the 
link to view the image.
Form 2106-EZ 
Attachment 1—John E. Michaels011-00-2222 
Worksheet 1. Figuring the Percentage of Tax-Free Income
  Note. For each line, enter the appropriate amount in all boxes that are not 
  shaded. 
       
      Source of Income 
      (a) 
      Taxable 
      (b) 
      Tax-free 
      (c) 
      Total 

      1 
      W-2 salary as a minister (from box 1 of Form W-2) 1  31,000  31,000 
      2 
      Gross income from weddings, baptisms, writing, lecturing, etc. (from line 
      1 of Schedule C or C-EZ) 2  4,000  4,000 
      Note. Complete either lines 3a-3d or lines 4a-4i.     
      •If your church provides you with a parsonage, complete lines 3a-3d.     
      •If, instead of providing a parsonage, your church provides you with a 
      rental or parsonage allowance, complete lines 4a-4i. 
          
      3a 
      FRV* of parsonage provided by church 3a     
      b 
      Utility allowance, if any 3b     
      c 
      Actual expenses for utilities 3c     
      d 
      Excess utility allowance (subtract line 3c from line 3b). If zero or less, 
      enter -0- 3d     
      4a 
      Parsonage or rental allowance 4a 9,600    
      b 
      Actual expenses for parsonage 4b 9,600  9,600 9,600 
       Note. If your utility allowance is separate from your parsonage or rental 
      allowance entered in line 4a, complete lines 4c-4d. Otherwise, go directly 
      to line 4e. 
            
      c 
      Utility allowance, if separate 4c 1,200    
      d 
      Actual expenses for utilities 4d 960  960 960 
      e 
      FRV* of home, including furnishings and utilities 4e 10,800    
      f 
      Total actual expenses for parsonage and utilities (add lines 4b and 4d) 4f 
      10,560    
      g 
      Enter the smaller of line 4e or 4f 4g 10,560    
      h 
      Total allowance (add lines 4a and 4c) 4h 10,800    
      i 
      Excess allowance (Subtract line 4g from line 4h). If zero or less, enter 
      -0- 4i  240  240 
      5 
      Ministerial income (for columns (a), (b), and (c), add lines 1 through 4i) 
      5  35,240 10,560 45,800 

      6 

      Percentage of tax-free income:Total tax-free income$10,560
      Total income$45,800= 23%** 

      *FRV (Fair Rental Value): As determined objectively and between unrelated 
      parties, what it would cost to rent a comparable home (including 
      furnishings and utilities) in a similar location. 
      ** This percentage of your ministerial expenses will not be deductible. 
      Use Worksheets 2 and 3 to figure your allowable deductions. 

Attachment 1—John E. Michaels011-00-2222 (continued) 
Worksheet 2. Figuring the Allowable Deduction for Schedule C or C-EZ Expenses
      1 
      Percentage of expenses that are nondeductible (from Worksheet 1, line 6): 
      23% 
      2a 
      Business use of car: 
      January 1-August 31 306 miles × 40.5¢ (.405) 2a 124  
      b 
      September 1-December 31 153 miles × 48.5¢ (.485) 2b 74  
      c 
      Total business use of car (add lines 2a and 2b) 2c  198 
      3 
      Meals and entertainment: $ ____________ × 50% (.50) 3   
      4 
      Other expenses (list item and amount) 
      a 
      Marriage and family booklets 4a 87  
      b 
       4b   
      c 
       4c   
      d 
       4d   
      e 
       4e   
      f 
      Total other expenses (add lines 4a through 4e) 4f  87 
      5 
      Total Schedule C or C-EZ expenses (add lines 2c, 3, and 4f) 5  285 
      6 
      Nondeductible part of Schedule C or C-EZ expenses (multiply line 5 by the 
      percent in line 1) 6  66 
      7 
      Deduction allowed.* Subtract line 6 from line 5. Enter the result here and 
      on Schedule C, line 27, or Schedule C-EZ, line 2. 7  219 

      * None of the other deductions claimed in this return are allocable to 
      tax-free income. 

       
       

Worksheet 3. Figuring the Allowable Deduction for Form 2106 or 2106-EZ Expenses
      1 
      Percentage of expenses that are nondeductible (from Worksheet 1, line 6): 
      23% 
      2a 
      Use of car for church business:: 
      January 1-August 31 1,733 miles × 40.5¢ (.405) 2a 702  
      b 
      September 1-December 31 867 miles × 48.5¢ (.485) 2b 420  
      c 
      Total business use of car (add lines 2a and 2b) 2c  1,122 
      3 
      Meals and entertainment: $____________ × 50% (.50) 3   
      4 
      Other expenses (list item and amount) 
      a 
      Professional publications and booklets 4a 219  
      b 
       4b   
      c 
       4c   
      d 
       4d   
      e 
       4e   
      f 
      Total other expenses (add lines 4a through 4e) 4f  219 
      5 
      Total Form 2106 or 2106-EZ expenses (add lines 2c, 3, and 4f) 5  1,341 
      6 
      Reimbursement not included in box 1 of Form W-2 6   
      7 
      Total unreimbursed Form 2106 or 2106-EZ expenses (subtract line 6 from 
      line 5) 7  1,341 
      8 
      Nondeductible part of Form 2106 or 2106-EZ expenses (multiply line 7 by 
      the percent in line 1) 8  308 
      9 
      Ministerial employee business expense deduction allowed.* Subtract line 8 
      from line 7. Enter the result here and on Form 2106, line 10, or Form 
      2106-EZ, 
      line 6. 9  1,033 

      * None of the other deductions claimed in this return are allocable to 
      tax-free income. 

Attachment 2—John E. Michaels011-00-2222 
Worksheet 4. Figuring Net Self-Employment Income for Schedule SE (Form 1040)
      1 
      W-2 salary as a minister (from box 1 of Form W-2) 1  31,000 
      2 
      Net profit from Schedule C, line 31, or Schedule C-EZ, line 3 2  3,781 
      3a 
      Parsonage allowance (from Worksheet 1, line 3a or 4a) 3a 9,600  
      b 
      Utilities allowance (from Worksheet 1, line 3b or 4c) 3b 1,200  
      c 
      Total allowance (add lines 3a and 3b) 3c  10,800 
      4 
      Add lines 1, 2, and 3c 4  45,581 
      5 
      Schedule C or C-EZ expenses allocable to tax-free income (from Worksheet 
      2, line 6) 5 66  
      6 
      Unreimbursed ministerial employee business expenses (from Worksheet 3, 
      line 7) 6 1,341  
      7 
      Total business expenses not deducted in lines 1 and 2 above (add lines 5 
      and 6) 7  1,407 
      8 
      Net self-employment income. Subtract line 7 from line 4. Enter here and on 
      Schedule SE, Section A, line 2, or Section B, line 6. 8  44,174 

Worksheets 
      These worksheets are provided to help you figure your taxable ministerial 
      income, your allowable deductions, and your net self-employment income. 



Worksheet 1. Figuring the Percentage of Tax-Free Income
  Note. For each line, enter the appropriate amount in all boxes that are not 
  shaded. 
       
      Source of Income 
      (a) 
      Taxable 
      (b) 
      Tax-free 
      (c) 
      Total 

      1 
      W-2 salary as a minister (from box 1 of Form W-2) 1     
      2 
      Gross income from weddings, baptisms, writing, lecturing, etc. (from line 
      1 of Schedule C or C-EZ) 2     
      Note. Complete either lines 3a-3d or lines 4a-4i.     
      •If your church provides you with a parsonage, complete lines 3a-3d.     
      •If, instead of providing a parsonage, your church provides you with a 
      rental or parsonage allowance, complete lines 4a-4i. 
          
      3a 
      FRV* of parsonage provided by church 3a     
      b 
      Utility allowance, if any 3b     
      c 
      Actual expenses for utilities 3c     
      d 
      Excess utility allowance (subtract line 3c from line 3b). If zero or less, 
      enter -0- 3d     
      4a 
      Parsonage or rental allowance 4a     
      b 
      Actual expenses for parsonage 4b     
       Note. If your utility allowance is separate from your parsonage or rental 
      allowance entered in line 4a, complete lines 4c-4d. Otherwise, go directly 
      to line 4e. 
            
      c 
      Utility allowance, if separate 4c     
      d 
      Actual expenses for utilities 4d     
      e 
      FRV* of home, including furnishings and utilities 4e     
      f 
      Total actual expenses for parsonage and utilities (add lines 4b and 4d) 4f 
          
      g 
      Enter the smaller of line 4e or 4f 4g     
      h 
      Total allowance (add lines 4a and 4c) 4h     
      i 
      Excess allowance (Subtract line 4g from line 4h). If zero or less, enter 
      -0- 4i     
      5 
      Ministerial income (for columns (a), (b), and (c), add lines 1 through 4i) 
      5     

      6 

      Percentage of tax-free income:Total tax-free income $
      Total income$ = %** 

      *FRV (Fair Rental Value): As determined objectively and between unrelated 
      parties, what it would cost to rent a comparable home (including 
      furnishings and utilities) in a similar location. 
      ** This percentage of your ministerial expenses will not be deductible. 
      Use Worksheets 2 and 3 to figure your allowable deductions. 

Worksheet 2. Figuring the Allowable Deduction for Schedule C or C-EZ Expenses
      1 
      Percentage of expenses that are nondeductible (from Worksheet 1, line 6): 
      % 
      2a 
      Business use of car: 
      January 1-August 31 miles × 40.5¢ (.405) 2a   
      b 
      September 1-December 31 miles × 48.5¢ (.485) 2b   
      c 
      Total business use of car (add lines 2a and 2b) 2c   
      3 
      Meals and entertainment: $ ____________ × 50% (.50) 3   
      4 
      Other expenses (list item and amount) 
      a 
      Marriage and family booklets 4a   
      b 
       4b   
      c 
       4c   
      d 
       4d   
      e 
       4e   
      f 
      Total other expenses (add lines 4a through 4e) 4f   
      5 
      Total Schedule C or C-EZ expenses (add lines 2c, 3, and 4f) 5   
      6 
      Nondeductible part of Schedule C or C-EZ expenses (multiply line 5 by the 
      percent in line 1) 6   
      7 
      Deduction allowed.* Subtract line 6 from line 5. Enter the result here and 
      on Schedule C, line 27, or Schedule C-EZ, line 2. 7   

      * None of the other deductions claimed in this return are allocable to 
      tax-free income. 

       
       

Worksheet 3. Figuring the Allowable Deduction for Form 2106 or 2106-EZ Expenses
      1 
      Percentage of expenses that are nondeductible (from Worksheet 1, line 6): 
      % 
      2a 
      Use of car for church business:: 
      January 1-August 31 miles × 40.5¢ (.405) 2a   
      b 
      September 1-December 31 miles × 48.5¢ (.485) 2b   
      c 
      Total business use of car (add lines 2a and 2b) 2c   
      3 
      Meals and entertainment: $____________ × 50% (.50) 3   
      4 
      Other expenses (list item and amount) 
      a 
      Professional publications and booklets 4a   
      b 
       4b   
      c 
       4c   
      d 
       4d   
      e 
       4e   
      f 
      Total other expenses (add lines 4a through 4e) 4f   
      5 
      Total Form 2106 or 2106-EZ expenses (add lines 2c, 3, and 4f) 5   
      6 
      Reimbursement not included in box 1 of Form W-2 6   
      7 
      Total unreimbursed Form 2106 or 2106-EZ expenses (subtract line 6 from 
      line 5) 7   
      8 
      Nondeductible part of Form 2106 or 2106-EZ expenses (multiply line 7 by 
      the percent in line 1) 8   
      9 
      Ministerial employee business expense deduction allowed.* Subtract line 8 
      from line 7. Enter the result here and on Form 2106, line 10, or Form 
      2106-EZ, line 6. 9   

      * None of the other deductions claimed in this return are allocable to 
      tax-free income. 

Worksheet 4. Figuring Net Self-Employment Income for Schedule SE (Form 1040)
      1 
      W-2 salary as a minister (from box 1 of Form W-2) 1   
      2 
      Net profit from Schedule C, line 31, or Schedule C-EZ, line 3 2   
      3a 
      Parsonage allowance (from Worksheet 1, line 3a or 4a) 3a   
      b 
      Utilities allowance (from Worksheet 1, line 3b or 4c) 3b   
      c 
      Total allowance (add lines 3a and 3b) 3c   
      4 
      Add lines 1, 2, and 3c 4   
      5 
      Schedule C or C-EZ expenses allocable to tax-free income (from Worksheet 
      2, line 6) 5   
      6 
      Unreimbursed ministerial employee business expenses (from Worksheet 3, 
      line 7) 6   
      7 
      Total business expenses not deducted in lines 1 and 2 above (add lines 5 
      and 6) 7   
      8 
      Net self-employment income. Subtract line 7 from line 4. Enter here and on 
      Schedule SE, Section A, line 2, or Section B, line 6. 8   

      Prev  Up Next
       Home 


      More Online Publications
Accessibility |  FirstGov.gov |  Freedom of Information Act |  Important Links | 
 IRS Privacy Policy |  U.S. Treasury


