Lesson 6

Introduction to the Study of Romans
A. Paul wrote the book of Romans.
B. Scripture seems to point to a predominately Gentile Roman church.
C. TIME & PLACE - Romans was written from Corinth around 57-58 AD.
D. OCCASION - Romans was written as Paul's introduction to the Christians at Rome preceding his journey to them.
E. PURPOSE - Romans is a theological treatise of the meaning of the Gospel.
F. Romans in a Nutshell: The entire subject matter of the epistle to the Romans is concerned with explanation of the Gospel of Christ. 
G. Structure of Romans:
	Introduction						1:1-17
DIVISION ONE:	Doctrinal		1:18-8:29
DIVISION TWO: 	Dispensational		9:1-11:26
DIVISION THREE: 	Practical		12:1-15:33
	Conclusion						16:1-2

H. Paul's Introduction to Romans - Ch. 1:1-17
"A Servant of Jesus Christ"
      Paul, a free-born Roman citizen chooses to identify himself as a doulos or "bond-servant" of Jesus Christ. A "bond-servant" is one bound to another by honorable ties for life. The New American Standard Bible Greek Lexicon includes the following statement in its definition of "doulos": "devoted to another to the disregard of one's own interests."
"Separated Unto the Gospel of God"
	Absolute consecration is spoken of in these words. Paul was set apart to preach one message and only one message. Paul did not declare a message that exalted himself nor did he do a work to further his position in the eyes of men. Paul declares that his purpose in life was the Gospel of God, and so should this be our purpose as ministers of the Gospel.

I. Paul's Theme: The Gospel			1:16-17
      Verses 16 & 17 are the key verses of this epistle and are a summary of the epistle. 
a. All who believe can be changed by the power of God.
b. Salvation is a work of God.
c. It is essential to preach the Word of God.
d. From faith to faith indicates a progression of faith to receive more 	revelation of the righteousness of God.
e. The just shall live by fait

DIVISION 1: DOCTRINAL

I. All are Guilty and Under Sin - Ch. 1:18-32 & 2:1-29
	
      The conclusion of chapter one continues on describing this people who are guilty and worthy of the wrath of God. They are without excuse.
           They knew God			1:19-23                                                                                                                                                                      
1. God gave them up, and turned them over. 1:24-32
2. Jewish/Religious Guilt - 2:1-29
(Sinners within the Law are Deserving of God's Wrath)
      Romans chapter two talks about the guilty Jew or the guilty religious person.  The Jew refused to obey The Light of Revelation.  In this chapter we see the Jew condemning others, just as the Pharisees did.  This chapter also talks about the circumcision of the heart, which is most important. 

The Principles of God's Judgment - Vs.2- 13
1) God's judgment is true.			v. 2 
2) God's judgment is impartial. 		v. 3-11
3) Obedience is a requirement for justification.- Vs. 13
4) T he Law of God is written on the hearts of men. - Vs. 14-16
3. THE UNFAITHFUL JEW IS UNDER CONDEMNATION - Vs. 17-25
f. The Jews rested in the Law. Vs. 17-18
The Jews believed they were superior to the Gentiles. Vs. 19-25
The True "Jew" is one that is so INWARDLY (heart, spirit) Vs. 26-29.

II. Justification is By Faith without the Deeds of the Law - Ch. 3 & 4	

A. In Chapter 3 we have five expressions concerning the Law:
The Advantage of the Law 			3:1-2
The Unequivocal Absoluteness of the Law 	3:3-8
The Unbending Authority of the Law 	3:9-19
The Unfailing true purpose of the Law 	 3:20-30
The True establishing of the Law		 3:31
	
Five Questions from Romans Chapter Three:
* What advantage then has the Jew?
* What profit is circumcision?
* If some to not believe does it hinder God's plan?
* Will unbelief cancel God's faithfulness? See II Timothy 2:13
* Is God unrighteous when He takes vengeance?
 
B. IT IS OF FAITH THAT IT MIGHT BE BY GRACE - 4:1-25

	Romans chapter four deals with Abraham's Righteousness. Abraham is an example of justification by faith.  Paul uses Abraham's life to explain the doctrine of righteousness by faith. Abraham's Faith is recorded
III. Believers are No Longer under the Law but Under Grace. - Ch. 5-8

A. Grace Reigns " THROUGH OUR LORD JESUS CHRIST" 	Ch. 5
Condemned men are slaves to death by Adam.
Justified men will reign in life by Christ.

B. Grace Reigns in Servants of Righteousness 	Ch. 6

      In Chapter six, Paul clearly establishes that the saint should not continue in sin. Paul answers the question "Shall we sin?" by asking and answering two similar but different questions.
* Verses 1-14	Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?	
* Verses 15-23	Shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace?
1. Dead men do not feed their flesh.
2. Dead men do not have life. 
3. Being Under Grace (& Not Under the Law) is not a License to Sin	Vs. 15-23

C. The Law Reigns over the Man Living in Sin	Ch. 7 

      Romans chapter seven deals with Carnality and the Law. This chapter talks about the old nature always attempting to do wrong, and the new nature always trying to do right. We need to be willing to submit and do what God wants.  The end of the chapter talks about the law being holy.
      AS LONG AS A PERSON IS IN SIN THEY ARE UNDER THE LAW. The Conflict between the law and the sinner.           7:14-25

I. The Conflict between the flesh and the law of sin.  7:23-25 The Battle Within; The Battle is Won or Lost in the Mind
The Ten Commandments are:

IV. Walking after the Spirit is Liberty			Ch. 8
   Romans chapter eight deals with our position in Christ.  We are free from sin and death. The end of the chapter deals with the Christian's Hope, which is; "If God be for us who can be against us."  And that we are more than conquerors and that all things work together for good.
* Are we spiritually minded? 
* Or are we carnally minded?      (self motivated)

V. Israel's Stumbling Stone - Ch. 9
      Romans chapter nine talks about Paul's sorrow for the Jews. We find out that not all of Abraham's seed were the children of promise. This chapter talks about the calling of the Gentiles, and the rejection of the Jews, foretold.


Lesson 6 Study Questions 

1. Ch. 
2. Ch.
3. Ch. 
Deliverance Bible Institute
N.T. SURVEY: PART I

1

